Problem 1
Jamie counted the number of edges of a cube, Jimmy counted the numbers of corners, and Judy counted the number of faces. They then added the three numbers. What was the resulting sum? $\mathrm{(A)}\ 12 \qquad\mathrm{(B)}\ 16 \qquad\mathrm{(C)}\ 20 \qquad\mathrm{(D)}\ 22 \qquad\mathrm{(E)}\ 26$

Solution

Problem 2
Which of the following numbers has the smallest prime factor? $\mathrm{(A)}\ 55 \qquad\mathrm{(B)}\ 57 \qquad\mathrm{(C)}\ 58 \qquad\mathrm{(D)}\ 59 \qquad\mathrm{(E)}\ 61$

Solution

Problem 3
A burger at Ricky C's weighs 120 grams, of which 30 grams are filler. What percent of the burger is not filler? $\mathrm{(A)}\ 60\% \qquad\mathrm{(B)}\ 65\% \qquad\mathrm{(C)}\ 70\% \qquad\mathrm{(D)}\ 75\% \qquad\mathrm{(E)}\ 90\%$

Solution

Problem 4
A group of children riding on bicycles and tricycles rode past Billy Bob's house. Billy Bob counted 7 children and 19 wheels. How many tricycles were there? $\mathrm{(A)}\ 2 \qquad\mathrm{(B)}\ 4 \qquad\mathrm{(C)}\ 5 \qquad\mathrm{(D)}\ 6 \qquad\mathrm{(E)}\ 7$

Solution

Problem 5
If 20% of a number is 12, what is 30% of the same number? $\mathrm{(A)}\ 15\qquad\mathrm{(B)}\ 18 \qquad\mathrm{(C)}\ 20 \qquad\mathrm{(D)}\ 24 \qquad\mathrm{(E)}\ 30$

Solution

Problem 6
Given the areas of the three squares in the figure, what is the area of the interior triangle?
[asy] draw((0,0)--(-5,12)--(7,17)--(12,5)--(17,5)--(17,0)--(12,0)--(12,-12)--(0,-12)--(0,0)--(12,5)--(12,0)--cycle,linewidth(1)); label("$25$",(14.5,1),N); label("$144$",(6,-7.5),N); label("$169$",(3.5,7),N); [/asy]
$\mathrm{(A)}\ 13 \qquad\mathrm{(B)}\ 30 \qquad\mathrm{(C)}\ 60 \qquad\mathrm{(D)}\ 300 \qquad\mathrm{(E)}\ 1800$

Solution

Problem 7
Blake and Jenny each took four 100-point tests. Blake averaged 78 on the four tests. Jenny scored 10 points higher than Blake on the first test, 10 points lower than him on the second test, and 20 points higher on both the third and fourth tests. What is the difference between Jenny's average and Blake's average on these four tests? $\mathrm{(A)}\ 10 \qquad\mathrm{(B)}\ 15 \qquad\mathrm{(C)}\ 20 \qquad\mathrm{(D)}\ 25 \qquad\mathrm{(E)}\ 40$

Solution

Problem 8
$\textbf{Bake Sale}$ (Problems 8, 9, and 10 use the data found in the accompanying paragraph and figures) Four friends, Art, Roger, Paul and Trisha, bake cookies, and all cookies have the same thickness. The shapes of the cookies differ, as shown.
[asy] size(80);defaultpen(linewidth(0.8));defaultpen(fontsize(8)); draw(origin--(5,0)--(5,3)--(2,3)--cycle); draw(rightanglemark((5,3), (5,0), origin)); label("5 in", (2.5,0), S); label("3 in", (5,1.5), E); label("3 in", (3.5,3), N); [/asy]
[asy] size(80);defaultpen(linewidth(0.8));defaultpen(fontsize(8)); draw(origin--(4,0)--(4,2)--(0,2)--cycle); draw(rightanglemark((4,2), (4,0), origin)); draw(rightanglemark((0,2), origin, (4,0))); label("4 in", (2,0), S); label("2 in", (4,1), E); [/asy]
[asy] size(80);defaultpen(linewidth(0.8));defaultpen(fontsize(8)); draw(origin--(3,0)--(2.5,2)--(-0.5,2)--cycle); draw((2.5,2)--(2.5,0), dashed); draw(rightanglemark((2.5,2),(2.5,0), origin)); label("3 in", (1.5,0), S); label("2 in", (2.5,1), W); [/asy]
[asy] size(80);defaultpen(linewidth(0.8));defaultpen(fontsize(8)); draw(origin--(3,0)--(3,4)--cycle); draw(rightanglemark((3,4),(3,0), origin)); label("3 in", (1.5,0), S); label("4 in", (3,2), E); [/asy]
Each friend uses the same amount of dough, and Art makes exactly 12 cookies. Who gets the fewest cookies from one batch of cookie dough?

$\textbf{(A)}\ \text{Art}\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ \text{Roger}\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ \text{Paul}\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ \text{Trisha}\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ \text{There is a tie for fewest.}$

Solution

Problem 9
Each friend uses the same amount of dough, and Art makes exactly $12$ cookies. Art's cookies sell for $60$ cents each. To earn the same amount from a single batch, how much should one of Roger's cookies cost in cents?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 18\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 25\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 40\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 75\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 90$

Solution

Problem 10
How many cookies will be in one batch of Trisha's cookies?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 10\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 12\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 16\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 18\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 24$

Solution

Problem 11
Business is a little slow at Lou's Fine Shoes, so Lou decides to have a sale. On Friday, Lou increases all of Thursday's prices by 10%. Over the weekend, Lou advertises the sale: "Ten percent off the listed price. Sale starts Monday." How much does a pair of shoes cost on Monday that cost 40 dollars on Thursday?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 36\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 39.60\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 40\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 40.40\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 44$

Solution

Problem 12
When a fair six-sided die is tossed on a table top, the bottom face cannot be seen. What is the probability that the product of the numbers on the five faces that can be seen is divisible by 6?

$\textbf{(A)}\ \frac{1}{3}\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ \frac{1}{2}\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ \frac{2}{3}\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ \frac{5}{6}\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 1$

Solution

Problem 13
Fourteen white cubes are put together to form the figure below. The complete surface of the figure, including the bottom, is painted red. The figure is then separated into individual cubes. How many of the individual cubes have exactly four red faces?
[asy] import three; defaultpen(linewidth(0.8)); real r=0.5; currentprojection=orthographic(3/4,8/15,7/15); draw(unitcube, white, thick(), nolight); draw(shift(1,0,0)*unitcube, white, thick(), nolight); draw(shift(2,0,0)*unitcube, white, thick(), nolight); draw(shift(0,0,1)*unitcube, white, thick(), nolight); draw(shift(2,0,1)*unitcube, white, thick(), nolight); draw(shift(0,1,0)*unitcube, white, thick(), nolight); draw(shift(2,1,0)*unitcube, white, thick(), nolight); draw(shift(0,2,0)*unitcube, white, thick(), nolight); draw(shift(2,2,0)*unitcube, white, thick(), nolight); draw(shift(0,3,0)*unitcube, white, thick(), nolight); draw(shift(0,3,1)*unitcube, white, thick(), nolight); draw(shift(1,3,0)*unitcube, white, thick(), nolight); draw(shift(2,3,0)*unitcube, white, thick(), nolight); draw(shift(2,3,1)*unitcube, white, thick(), nolight);[/asy]

$\textbf{(A)}\ 4\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 6\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 8\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 10\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 12$

Solution

Problem 14
In this addition problem, each letter stands for a different digit. $\setlength{\tabcolsep}{0.5mm}\begin{array}{cccc}&T & W & O\\ + &T & W & O\\ \hline F& O & U & R\end{array}$ If $T = 7$ and the letter $O$ represents an even number, what is the only possible value for $W$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 0 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 1 \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 2\qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 3\qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 4$

Solution

Problem 15
A figure is constructed from unit cubes. Each cube shares at least one face with another cube. What is the minimum number of cubes needed to build a figure with the front and side views shown?
[asy] defaultpen(linewidth(0.8)); path p=unitsquare; draw(p^^shift(0,1)*p^^shift(1,0)*p); draw(shift(4,0)*p^^shift(5,0)*p^^shift(5,1)*p); label("FRONT", (1,0), S); label("SIDE", (5,0), S);[/asy]

$\textbf{(A)}\ 3\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 4\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 5\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 6\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 7$

Solution

Problem 16
Ali, Bonnie, Carlo, and Dianna are going to drive together to a nearby theme park. The car they are using has 4 seats: 1 driver's seat, 1 front passenger seat, and 2 back passenger seats. Bonnie and Carlo are the only ones who know how to drive the car. How many possible seating arrangements are there?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 2 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 4 \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 6 \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 12 \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 24$

Solution

Problem 17
The six children listed below are from two families of three siblings each. Each child has blue or brown eyes and black or blond hair. Children from the same family have at least one of these characteristics in common. Which two children are Jim's siblings? \[\begin{array}{c|c|c}\text{Child}&\text{Eye Color}&\text{Hair Color}\\ \hline\text{Benjamin}&\text{Blue}&\text{Black}\\ \hline\text{Jim}&\text{Brown}&\text{Blonde}\\ \hline\text{Nadeen}&\text{Brown}&\text{Black}\\ \hline\text{Austin}&\text{Blue}&\text{Blonde}\\ \hline\text{Tevyn}&\text{Blue}&\text{Black}\\ \hline\text{Sue}&\text{Blue}&\text{Blonde}\\ \hline\end{array}\]

$\textbf{(A)}\ \text{Nadeen and Austin}\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ \text{Benjamin and Sue}\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ \text{Benjamin and Austin}\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ \text{Nadeen and Tevyn}$
$\textbf{(E)}\ \text{Austin and Sue}$

Solution

Problem 18
[asy]/* AMC8 2003 #18 Problem */ pair a=(102,256), b=(68,131), c=(162,101), d=(134,150); pair e=(269,105), f=(359,104), g=(303,12), h=(579,211); pair i=(534, 342), j=(442,432), k=(374,484), l=(278,501); pair m=(282,411), n=(147,451), o=(103,437), p=(31,373); pair q=(419,175), r=(462,209), s=(477,288), t=(443,358); pair oval=(282,303); draw(l--m--n--cycle); draw(p--oval); draw(o--oval); draw(b--d--oval); draw(c--d--e--oval); draw(e--f--g--h--i--j--oval); draw(k--oval); draw(q--oval); draw(s--oval); draw(r--s--t--oval); dot(a); dot(b); dot(c); dot(d); dot(e); dot(f); dot(g); dot(h); dot(i); dot(j); dot(k); dot(l); dot(m); dot(n); dot(o); dot(p); dot(q); dot(r); dot(s); dot(t); filldraw(yscale(.5)*Circle((282,606),80),white,black); label(scale(0.75)*"Sarah", oval);[/asy]

$\textbf{(A)}\ 1\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 4\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 5\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 6\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 7$

Solution

Problem 19
How many integers between 1000 and 2000 have all three of the numbers 15, 20, and 25 as factors?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 1 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 2 \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 3 \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 4 \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 5$

Solution

Problem 20
What is the measure of the acute angle formed by the hands of the clock at 4:20 PM?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 0 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 5 \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 8 \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 10 \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 12$

Solution

Problem 21
The area of trapezoid $ABCD$ is $164\text{ cm}^2$ . The altitude is 8 cm, $AB$ is 10 cm, and $CD$ is 17 cm. What is $BC$ , in centimeters?
[asy]/* AMC8 2003 #21 Problem */ size(4inch,2inch); draw((0,0)--(31,0)--(16,8)--(6,8)--cycle); draw((11,8)--(11,0), linetype("8 4")); draw((11,1)--(12,1)--(12,0)); label("$A$", (0,0), SW); label("$D$", (31,0), SE); label("$B$", (6,8), NW); label("$C$", (16,8), NE); label("10", (3,5), W); label("8", (11,4), E); label("17", (22.5,5), E);[/asy]

$\textbf{(A)}\ 9\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 10\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 12\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 15\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 20$

Solution

Problem 22
[asy]/* AMC8 2003 #22 Problem */ size(3inch, 2inch); unitsize(1cm); pen outline = black+linewidth(1); filldraw((0,0)--(2,0)--(2,2)--(0,2)--cycle, mediumgrey, outline); filldraw(shift(3,0)*((0,0)--(2,0)--(2,2)--(0,2)--cycle), mediumgrey, outline); filldraw(Circle((7,1), 1), mediumgrey, black+linewidth(1)); filldraw(Circle((1,1), 1), white, outline); filldraw(Circle((3.5,.5), .5), white, outline); filldraw(Circle((4.5,.5), .5), white, outline); filldraw(Circle((3.5,1.5), .5), white, outline); filldraw(Circle((4.5,1.5), .5), white, outline); filldraw((6.3,.3)--(7.7,.3)--(7.7,1.7)--(6.3,1.7)--cycle, white, outline); label("A", (1, 2), N); label("B", (4, 2), N); label("C", (7, 2), N); draw((0,-.5)--(.5,-.5), BeginArrow); draw((1.5, -.5)--(2, -.5), EndArrow); label("2 cm", (1, -.5)); draw((3,-.5)--(3.5,-.5), BeginArrow); draw((4.5, -.5)--(5, -.5), EndArrow); label("2 cm", (4, -.5)); draw((6,-.5)--(6.5,-.5), BeginArrow); draw((7.5, -.5)--(8, -.5), EndArrow); label("2 cm", (7, -.5)); draw((6,1)--(6,-.5), linetype("4 4")); draw((8,1)--(8,-.5), linetype("4 4"));[/asy]

$\textbf{(A)}\ \text{A only}\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ \text{B only}\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ \text{C only}\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ \text{both A and B}\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ \text{all are equal}$

Solution

Problem 23
In the pattern below, the cat moves clockwise through the four squares and the mouse moves counterclockwise through the eight exterior segments of the four squares. If the pattern is continued, where would the cat and mouse be after the 247th move?

Solution

Problem 24
A ship travels from point $A$ to point $B$ along a semicircular path, centered at Island $X$ . Then it travels along a straight path from $B$ to $C$ . Which of these graphs best shows the ship's distance from Island $X$ as it moves along its course?
[asy]size(150); pair X=origin, A=(-5,0), B=(5,0), C=(0,5); draw(Arc(X, 5, 180, 360)^^B--C); dot(X); label("$X$", X, NE); label("$C$", C, N); label("$B$", B, E); label("$A$", A, W); [/asy]

Solution

Problem 25
In the figure, the area of square $WXYZ$ is $25 \text{ cm}^2$ . The four smaller squares have sides 1 cm long, either parallel to or coinciding with the sides of the large square. In $\triangle ABC$ , $AB = AC$ , and when $\triangle ABC$ is folded over side $\overline{BC}$ , point $A$ coincides with $O$ , the center of square $WXYZ$ . What is the area of $\triangle ABC$ , in square centimeters?
[asy] defaultpen(fontsize(8)); size(225); pair Z=origin, W=(0,10), X=(10,10), Y=(10,0), O=(5,5), B=(-4,8), C=(-4,2), A=(-13,5); draw((-4,0)--Y--X--(-4,10)--cycle); draw((0,-2)--(0,12)--(-2,12)--(-2,8)--B--A--C--(-2,2)--(-2,-2)--cycle); dot(O); label("$A$", A, NW); label("$O$", O, NE); label("$B$", B, SW); label("$C$", C, NW); label("$W$",W , NE); label("$X$", X, N); label("$Y$", Y, S); label("$Z$", Z, SE); [/asy]

$\textbf{(A)}\ \frac{15}4\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ \frac{21}4\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ \frac{27}4\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ \frac{21}2\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ \frac{27}2$

Solution
