Problem 1
Theresa's parents have agreed to buy her tickets to see her favorite band if she spends an average of $10$ hours per week helping around the house for $6$ weeks. For the first $5$ weeks she helps around the house for $8$ , $11$ , $7$ , $12$ and $10$ hours. How many hours must she work for the final week to earn the tickets?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 9 \qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 10 \qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 11 \qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 12 \qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 13$

Solution

Problem 2
$650$ students were surveyed about their pasta preferences. The choices were lasagna, manicotti, ravioli and spaghetti. The results of the survey are displayed in the bar graph. What is the ratio of the number of students who preferred spaghetti to the number of students who preferred manicotti?

$\textbf{(A)} \frac{2}{5} \qquad \textbf{(B)} \frac{1}{2} \qquad \textbf{(C)} \frac{5}{4} \qquad \textbf{(D)} \frac{5}{3} \qquad \textbf{(E)} \frac{5}{2}$

Solution

Problem 3
What is the sum of the two smallest prime factors of $250$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 2 \qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 5 \qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 7 \qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 10 \qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 12$

Solution

Problem 4
A haunted house has six windows. In how many ways can Georgie the Ghost enter the house by one window and leave by a different window?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 12 \qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 15 \qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 18 \qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 30 \qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 36$

Solution

Problem 5
Chandler wants to buy a $\textdollar 500$ mountain bike. For his birthday, his grandparents send him $\textdollar 50$ , his aunt sends him $\textdollar 35$ and his cousin gives him $\textdollar 15$ . He earns $\textdollar 16$ per week for his paper route. He will use all of his birthday money and all of the money he earns from his paper route. In how many weeks will he be able to buy the mountain bike?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 24 \qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 25 \qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 26 \qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 27 \qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 28$

Solution

Problem 6
The average cost of a long-distance call in the USA in $1985$ was $41$ cents per minute, and the average cost of a long-distance call in the USA in $2005$ was $7$ cents per minute. Find the approximate percent decrease in the cost per minute of a long- distance call.

$\textbf{(A)}\ 7 \qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 17 \qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 34 \qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 41 \qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 80$

Solution

Problem 7
The average age of $5$ people in a room is $30$ years. An $18$ -year-old person leaves the room. What is the average age of the four remaining people?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 25 \qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 26 \qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 29 \qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 33 \qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 36$

Solution

Problem 8
[asy] defaultpen(linewidth(0.7)); pair A=(0,3), B=(3,3), C=(6,0), D=origin, E=(3,0); draw(E--B--C--D--A--B); draw(rightanglemark(A, D, C)); label("$A$", A, NW); label("$B$", B, NW); label("$C$", C, SE); label("$D$", D, SW); label("$E$", E, NW); label("$3$", A--D, W); label("$3$", A--B, N); label("$6$", E, S); [/asy]

$\textbf{(A)}\ 3 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 4.5 \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 6 \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 9 \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 18$

Solution

Problem 9
To complete the grid below, each of the digits 1 through 4 must occur once in each row and once in each column. What number will occupy the lower right-hand square?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 1 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 2 \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 3 \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 4 \qquad \textbf{(E)}$ cannot be determined

Solution

Problem 10
For any positive integer $n$ , define $\boxed{n}$ to be the sum of the positive factors of $n$ . For example, $\boxed{6} = 1 + 2 + 3 + 6 = 12$ . Find $\boxed{\boxed{11}}$ .

$\textbf{(A)}\ 13 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 20 \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 24 \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 28 \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 30$

Solution

Problem 11
Tiles $I, II, III$ and $IV$ are translated so one tile coincides with each of the rectangles $A, B, C$ and $D$ . In the final arrangement, the two numbers on any side common to two adjacent tiles must be the same. Which of the tiles is translated to Rectangle $C$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ I \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ II \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ III \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ IV \qquad \textbf{(E)}$ cannot be determined

Solution

Problem 12
A unit hexagram is composed of a regular hexagon of side length $1$ and its $6$ equilateral triangular extensions, as shown in the diagram. What is the ratio of the area of the extensions to the area of the original hexagon?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 1:1 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 6:5 \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 3:2 \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 2:1 \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 3:1$

Solution

Problem 13
Sets $A$ and $B$ , shown in the Venn diagram, have the same number of elements. Their union has $2007$ elements and their intersection has $1001$ elements. Find the number of elements in $A$ .

$\textbf{(A)}\ 503 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 1006 \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 1504 \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 1507 \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 1510$

Solution

Problem 14
The base of isosceles $\triangle ABC$ is $24$ and its area is $60$ . What is the length of one of the congruent sides?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 5 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 8 \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 13 \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 14 \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 18$

Solution

Problem 15
Let $a, b$ and $c$ be numbers with $0 < a < b < c$ . Which of the following is impossible?

$\textbf{(A)} \ a + c < b \qquad \textbf{(B)} \ a \cdot b < c \qquad \textbf{(C)} \ a + b < c \qquad \textbf{(D)} \ a \cdot c < b \qquad \textbf{(E)}\frac{b}{c} = a$

Solution

Problem 16
Amanda draws five circles with radii $1, 2, 3, 4$ and $5$ . Then for each circle she plots the point $(C,A)$ , where $C$ is its circumference and $A$ is its area. Which of the following could be her graph?

Solution

Problem 17
A mixture of $30$ liters of paint is $25\%$ red tint, $30\%$ yellow tint and $45\%$ water. Five liters of yellow tint are added to the original mixture. What is the percent of yellow tint in the new mixture?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 25 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 35 \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 40 \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 45 \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 50$

Solution

Problem 18
The product of the two $99$ -digit numbers $303,\!030,\!303,\!...,\!030,\!303$ and $505,\!050,\!505,\!...,\!050,\!505$ has thousands digit $A$ and units digit $B$ . What is the sum of $A$ and $B$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 3 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 5 \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 6 \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 8 \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 10$

Solution

Problem 19
Pick two consecutive positive integers whose sum is less than $100$ . Square both of those integers and then find the difference of the squares. Which of the following could be the difference?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 2 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 64 \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 79 \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 96 \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 131$

Solution

Problem 20
Before district play, the Unicorns had won $45\%$ of their basketball games. During district play, they won six more games and lost two, to finish the season having won half their games. How many games did the Unicorns play in all?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 48 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 50 \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 52 \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 54 \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 60$

Solution

Problem 21
Two cards are dealt from a deck of four red cards labeled $A, B, C, D$ and four green cards labeled $A, B, C, D$ . A winning pair is two of the same color or two of the same letter. What is the probability of drawing a winning pair?

$\textbf{(A)} \frac{2}{7} \qquad \textbf{(B)} \frac{3}{8} \qquad \textbf{(C)} \frac{1}{2} \qquad \textbf{(D)} \frac{4}{7} \qquad \textbf{(E)} \frac{5}{8}$

Solution

Problem 22
A lemming sits at a corner of a square with side length $10$ meters. The lemming runs $6.2$ meters along a diagonal toward the opposite corner. It stops, makes a $90$ degree right turn and runs $2$ more meters. A scientist measures the shortest distance between the lemming and each side of the square. What is the average of these four distances in meters?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 2 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 4.5 \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 5 \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 6.2 \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 7$

Solution

Problem 23
What is the area of the shaded part shown in the $5$ x $5$ grid?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 4 \qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 6 \qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 8 \qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 10 \qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 12$

Solution

Problem 24
A bag contains four pieces of paper, each labeled with one of the digits "1, 2, 3" or "4", with no repeats. Three of these pieces are drawn, one at a time without replacement, to construct a three-digit number. What is the probability that the three-digit number is a multiple of 3?

$\textbf{(A)} \frac{1}{4} \qquad \textbf{(B)} \frac{1}{3} \qquad \textbf{(C)} \frac{1}{2} \qquad \textbf{(D)} \frac{2}{3} \qquad \textbf{(E)} \frac{3}{4}$

Solution

Problem 25
On the dart board shown in the figure, the outer circle has radius $6$ and the inner circle has a radius of 3. Three radii divide each circle into three congruent regions, with point values shown. The probability that a dart will hit a given region is proportional to the area of the region. When two darts hit this board, the score is the sum of the point values in the regions. What is the probability that the score is odd?
[asy] draw(Circle(origin, 2)); draw(Circle(origin, 1)); draw(origin--2*dir(90)); draw(origin--2*dir(210)); draw(origin--2*dir(330)); label("$1$", 0.35*dir(150), dir(150)); label("$1$", 1.3*dir(30), dir(30)); label("$1$", (0,-1.3), dir(270)); label("$2$", 1.3*dir(150), dir(150)); label("$2$", 0.35*dir(30), dir(30)); label("$2$", (0,-0.35), dir(270)); [/asy]

$\textbf{(A)} \frac{17}{36} \qquad \textbf{(B)} \frac{35}{72} \qquad \textbf{(C)} \frac{1}{2} \qquad \textbf{(D)} \frac{37}{72} \qquad \textbf{(E)} \frac{19}{36}$

Solution
