Problem 1
Sandwiches at Joe's Fast Food cost $3$ dollars each and sodas cost $2$ dollars each. How many dollars will it cost to purchase $5$ sandwiches and $8$ sodas? $\mathrm{(A) \ } 31\qquad \mathrm{(B) \ } 32\qquad \mathrm{(C) \ } 33\qquad \mathrm{(D) \ } 34\qquad \mathrm{(E) \ } 35$

Solution

Problem 2
Define $x\otimes y=x^3-y$ . What is $h\otimes (h\otimes h)$ ? $\mathrm{(A) \ } -h\qquad \mathrm{(B) \ } 0\qquad \mathrm{(C) \ } h\qquad \mathrm{(D) \ } 2h\qquad \mathrm{(E) \ } h^3$

Solution

Problem 3
The ratio of Mary's age to Alice's age is $3:5$ . Alice is $30$ years old. How old is Mary? $\mathrm{(A) \ } 15\qquad \mathrm{(B) \ } 18\qquad \mathrm{(C) \ } 20\qquad \mathrm{(D) \ } 24\qquad \mathrm{(E) \ } 50$

Solution

Problem 4
A digital watch displays hours and minutes with AM and PM. What is the largest possible sum of the digits in the display? $\mathrm{(A) \ } 17\qquad \mathrm{(B) \ } 19\qquad \mathrm{(C) \ } 21\qquad \mathrm{(D) \ } 22\qquad \mathrm{(E) \ } 23$

Solution

Problem 5
Doug and Dave shared a pizza with $8$ equally-sized slices. Doug wanted a plain pizza, but Dave wanted anchovies on half the pizza. The cost of a plain pizza was $8$ dollars, and there was an additional cost of $2$ dollars for putting anchovies on one half. Dave ate all the slices of anchovy pizza and one plain slice. Doug ate the remainder. Each paid for what he had eaten. How many more dollars did Dave pay than Doug? $\mathrm{(A) \ } 1\qquad \mathrm{(B) \ } 2\qquad \mathrm{(C) \ } 3\qquad \mathrm{(D) \ } 4\qquad \mathrm{(E) \ } 5$

Solution

Problem 6
[asy] unitsize(3mm); defaultpen(fontsize(10pt)+linewidth(.8pt)); dotfactor=4; draw((0,4)--(18,4)--(18,-4)--(0,-4)--cycle); draw((6,4)--(6,0)--(12,0)--(12,-4)); label("$A$",(0,4),NW); label("$B$",(18,4),NE); label("$C$",(18,-4),SE); label("$D$",(0,-4),SW); label("$y$",(3,4),S); label("$y$",(15,-4),N); label("$18$",(9,4),N); label("$18$",(9,-4),S); label("$8$",(0,0),W); label("$8$",(18,0),E); dot((0,4)); dot((18,4)); dot((18,-4)); dot((0,-4));[/asy]

Solution

Problem 7
Mary is $20\%$ older than Sally, and Sally is $40\%$ younger than Danielle. The sum of their ages is $23.2$ years. How old will Mary be on her next birthday? $\mathrm{(A) \ } 7\qquad \mathrm{(B) \ } 8\qquad \mathrm{(C) \ } 9\qquad \mathrm{(D) \ } 10\qquad \mathrm{(E) \ } 11$

Solution

Problem 8
How many sets of two or more consecutive positive integers have a sum of $15$ ? $\mathrm{(A) \ } 1\qquad \mathrm{(B) \ } 2\qquad \mathrm{(C) \ } 3\qquad \mathrm{(D) \ } 4\qquad \mathrm{(E) \ } 5$

Solution

Problem 9
Oscar buys $13$ pencils and $3$ erasers for $\textdollar 1.00$ . A pencil costs more than an eraser, and both items cost a whole number of cents. What is the total cost, in cents, of one pencil and one eraser? $\mathrm{(A) \ } 10\qquad \mathrm{(B) \ } 12\qquad \mathrm{(C) \ } 15\qquad \mathrm{(D) \ } 18\qquad \mathrm{(E) \ } 20$

Solution

Problem 10
For how many real values of $x$ is $\sqrt{120-\sqrt{x}}$ an integer? $\mathrm{(A) \ } 3\qquad \mathrm{(B) \ } 6\qquad \mathrm{(C) \ } 9\qquad \mathrm{(D) \ } 10\qquad \mathrm{(E) \ } 11$

Solution

Problem 11
Which of the following describes the graph of the equation $(x+y)^2=x^2+y^2$ ? $\mathrm{(A)}\ \text{the empty set}\qquad\mathrm{(B)}\ \text{one point}\qquad\mathrm{(C)}\ \text{two lines}\qquad\mathrm{(D)}\ \text{a circle}\qquad\mathrm{(E)}\ \text{the entire plane}$

Solution

Problem 12
[asy]size(7cm); pointpen = black; pathpen = linewidth(0.7); D(CR((0,0),10)); D(CR((0,0),9.5)); D(CR((0,-18.5),9.5)); D(CR((0,-18.5),9)); MP("$\vdots$",(0,-31),(0,0)); D(CR((0,-39),3)); D(CR((0,-39),2.5)); D(CR((0,-43.5),2.5)); D(CR((0,-43.5),2)); D(CR((0,-47),2)); D(CR((0,-47),1.5)); D(CR((0,-49.5),1.5)); D(CR((0,-49.5),1.0)); D((12,-10)--(12,10)); MP('20',(12,0),E); D((12,-51)--(12,-48)); MP('3',(12,-49.5),E); [/asy]

Solution

Problem 13
[asy] unitsize(5mm); defaultpen(fontsize(10pt)+linewidth(.8pt)); pair B=(0,0), C=(5,0); pair A=intersectionpoints(Circle(B,3),Circle(C,4))[0]; draw(A--B--C--cycle); draw(Circle(C,3)); draw(Circle(A,1)); draw(Circle(B,2)); label("$A$",A,N); label("$B$",B,W); label("$C$",C,E); label("3",midpoint(B--A),NW); label("4",midpoint(A--C),NE); label("5",midpoint(B--C),S);[/asy]
$\mathrm{(A) \ } 12\pi\qquad \mathrm{(B) \ } \frac{25\pi}{2}\qquad \mathrm{(C) \ } 13\pi\qquad \mathrm{(D) \ } \frac{27\pi}{2}\qquad \mathrm{(E) \ } 14\pi$

Solution

Problem 14
Two farmers agree that pigs are worth $300$ dollars and that goats are worth $210$ dollars. When one farmer owes the other money, he pays the debt in pigs or goats, with "change" received in the form of goats or pigs as necessary. (For example, a $390$ dollar debt could be paid with two pigs, with one goat received in change.) What is the amount of the smallest positive debt that can be resolved in this way? $\mathrm{(A) \ } \textdollar5 \qquad \mathrm{(B) \ } \textdollar 10 \qquad \mathrm{(C) \ } \textdollar 30 \qquad \mathrm{(D) \ } \textdollar 90 \qquad \mathrm{(E) \ } \textdollar 210$

Solution

Problem 15
Suppose $\cos x=0$ and $\cos (x+z)=1/2$ . What is the smallest possible positive value of $z$ ? $\mathrm{(A) \ } \frac{\pi}{6}\qquad \mathrm{(B) \ } \frac{\pi}{3}\qquad \mathrm{(C) \ } \frac{\pi}{2}\qquad \mathrm{(D) \ } \frac{5\pi}{6}\qquad \mathrm{(E) \ } \frac{7\pi}{6}$

Solution

Problem 16
[asy]unitsize(2.5mm); defaultpen(fontsize(10pt)+linewidth(.8pt)); dotfactor=3; pair A=(0,0), Ep=(5,0), B=(5+40/3,0); pair M=midpoint(A--Ep); pair C=intersectionpoints(Circle(M,2.5),Circle(A,3))[1]; pair D=B+8*dir(180+degrees(C)); dot(A); dot(C); dot(B); dot(D); draw(C--D); draw(A--B); draw(Circle(A,3)); draw(Circle(B,8)); label("$A$",A,W); label("$B$",B,E); label("$C$",C,SE); label("$E$",Ep,SSE); label("$D$",D,NW);[/asy]

Solution

Problem 17
[asy]unitsize(6mm); defaultpen(linewidth(.8pt)+fontsize(10pt)); dotfactor=3; pair B=(0,0), C=(3,0), D=(3,3), A=(0,3); pair Ep=(3+5*sqrt(2)/6,3+5*sqrt(2)/6); pair F=intersectionpoints(Circle(A,sqrt(9+5*sqrt(2))),Circle(Ep,5/3))[0]; pair[] dots={A,B,C,D,Ep,F}; draw(A--F); draw(Circle(Ep,5/3)); draw(A--B--C--D--cycle); dot(dots); label("$A$",A,NW); label("$B$",B,SW); label("$C$",C,SE); label("$D$",D,SW); label("$E$",Ep,E); label("$F$",F,NW); [/asy]

Solution

Problem 18
The function $f$ has the property that for each real number $x$ in its domain, $1/x$ is also in its domain and $f(x)+f\left(\frac{1}{x}\right)=x$ What is the largest set of real numbers that can be in the domain of $f$ ? $\mathrm{(A) \ } \{x|x\ne 0\}\qquad \mathrm{(B) \ } \{x|x<0\}\qquad \mathrm{(C) \ } \{x|x>0\}\qquad \mathrm{(D) \ } \{x|x\ne -1\;$ $\mathrm{and}\; x\ne 0\;\mathrm{and}\; x\ne 1\}\qquad \mathrm{(E) \ } \{-1,1\}$

Solution

Problem 19
Circles with centers $(2,4)$ and $(14,9)$ have radii $4$ and $9$ , respectively. The equation of a common external tangent to the circles can be written in the form $y=mx+b$ with $m>0$ . What is $b$ ?
[asy] size(150); defaultpen(linewidth(0.7)+fontsize(8)); draw(circle((2,4),4));draw(circle((14,9),9)); draw((0,-2)--(0,20));draw((-6,0)--(25,0)); draw((2,4)--(2,4)+4*expi(pi*4.5/11)); draw((14,9)--(14,9)+9*expi(pi*6/7)); label("4",(2,4)+2*expi(pi*4.5/11),(-1,0)); label("9",(14,9)+4.5*expi(pi*6/7),(1,1)); label("(2,4)",(2,4),(0.5,-1.5));label("(14,9)",(14,9),(1,-1)); draw((-4,120*-4/119+912/119)--(11,120*11/119+912/119)); dot((2,4)^^(14,9)); [/asy]
$\mathrm{(A) \ } \frac{908}{119}\qquad \mathrm{(B) \ } \frac{909}{119}\qquad \mathrm{(C) \ } \frac{130}{17}\qquad \mathrm{(D) \ } \frac{911}{119}\qquad \mathrm{(E) \ } \frac{912}{119}$

Solution

Problem 20
A bug starts at one vertex of a cube and moves along the edges of the cube according to the following rule. At each vertex the bug will choose to travel along one of the three edges emanating from that vertex. Each edge has equal probability of being chosen, and all choices are independent. What is the probability that after seven moves the bug will have visited every vertex exactly once? $\mathrm{(A) \ } \frac{1}{2187}\qquad \mathrm{(B) \ } \frac{1}{729}\qquad \mathrm{(C) \ } \frac{2}{243}\qquad \mathrm{(D) \ } \frac{1}{81}\qquad \mathrm{(E) \ } \frac{5}{243}$

Solution

Problem 21
Let $S_1=\{(x,y)|\log_{10}(1+x^2+y^2)\le 1+\log_{10}(x+y)\}$ and $S_2=\{(x,y)|\log_{10}(2+x^2+y^2)\le 2+\log_{10}(x+y)\}$ . What is the ratio of the area of $S_2$ to the area of $S_1$ ? $\mathrm{(A) \ } 98\qquad \mathrm{(B) \ } 99\qquad \mathrm{(C) \ } 100\qquad \mathrm{(D) \ } 101\qquad \mathrm{(E) \ } 102$

Solution

Problem 22
A circle of radius $r$ is concentric with and outside a regular hexagon of side length $2$ . The probability that three entire sides of hexagon are visible from a randomly chosen point on the circle is $1/2$ . What is $r$ ? $\mathrm{(A) \ } 2\sqrt{2}+2\sqrt{3}\qquad \mathrm{(B) \ } 3\sqrt{3}+\sqrt{2}\qquad \mathrm{(C) \ } 2\sqrt{6}+\sqrt{3} \qquad \mathrm{(D) \ } 3\sqrt{2}+\sqrt{6}\qquad \mathrm{(E) \ } 6\sqrt{2}-\sqrt{3}$

Solution

Problem 23
Given a finite sequence $S=(a_1,a_2,\ldots ,a_n)$ of $n$ real numbers, let $A(S)$ be the sequence $\left(\frac{a_1+a_2}{2},\frac{a_2+a_3}{2},\ldots ,\frac{a_{n-1}+a_n}{2}\right)$ of $n-1$ real numbers. Define $A^1(S)=A(S)$ and, for each integer $m$ , $2\le m\le n-1$ , define $A^m(S)=A(A^{m-1}(S))$ . Suppose $x>0$ , and let $S=(1,x,x^2,\ldots ,x^{100})$ . If $A^{100}(S)=(1/2^{50})$ , then what is $x$ ? $\mathrm{(A) \ } 1-\frac{\sqrt{2}}{2}\qquad \mathrm{(B) \ } \sqrt{2}-1\qquad \mathrm{(C) \ } \frac{1}{2}\qquad \mathrm{(D) \ } 2-\sqrt{2}\qquad \mathrm{(E) \ } \frac{\sqrt{2}}{2}$

Solution

Problem 24
The expression $(x+y+z)^{2006}+(x-y-z)^{2006}$ is simplified by expanding it and combining like terms. How many terms are in the simplified expression? $\mathrm{(A) \ } 6018\qquad \mathrm{(B) \ } 671,676\qquad \mathrm{(C) \ } 1,007,514\qquad \mathrm{(D) \ } 1,008,016\qquad \mathrm{(E) \ } 2,015,028$

Solution

Problem 25
How many non-empty subsets $S$ of $\lbrace 1,2,3,\ldots ,15\rbrace$ have the following two properties? $(1)$ No two consecutive integers belong to $S$ . $(2)$ If $S$ contains $k$ elements, then $S$ contains no number less than $k$ . $\mathrm{(A) \ } 277\qquad \mathrm{(B) \ } 311\qquad \mathrm{(C) \ } 376\qquad \mathrm{(D) \ } 377\qquad \mathrm{(E) \ } 405$

Solution
