Problem 1
Kim's flight took off from Newark at 10:34 AM and landed in Miami at 1:18 PM. Both cities are in the same time zone. If her flight took $h$ hours and $m$ minutes, with $0 < m < 60$ , what is $h + m$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 46 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 47 \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 50 \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 53 \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 54$

Solution

Problem 2
Which of the following is equal to $1 + \frac {1}{1 + \frac {1}{1 + 1}}$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ \frac {5}{4} \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ \frac {3}{2} \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ \frac {5}{3} \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 2 \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 3$

Solution

Problem 3
What number is one third of the way from $\frac14$ to $\frac34$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ \frac {1}{3} \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ \frac {5}{12} \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ \frac {1}{2} \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ \frac {7}{12} \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ \frac {2}{3}$

Solution

Problem 4
Four coins are picked out of a piggy bank that contains a collection of pennies, nickels, dimes, and quarters. Which of the following could not be the total value of the four coins, in cents?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 15 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 25 \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 35 \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 45 \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 55$

Solution

Problem 5
One dimension of a cube is increased by $1$ , another is decreased by $1$ , and the third is left unchanged. The volume of the new rectangular solid is $5$ less than that of the cube. What was the volume of the cube?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 8 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 27 \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 64 \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 125 \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 216$

Solution

Problem 6
Suppose that $P = 2^m$ and $Q = 3^n$ . Which of the following is equal to $12^{mn}$ for every pair of integers $(m,n)$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ P^2Q \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ P^nQ^m \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ P^nQ^{2m} \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ P^{2m}Q^n \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ P^{2n}Q^m$

Solution

Problem 7
The first three terms of an arithmetic sequence are $2x - 3$ , $5x - 11$ , and $3x + 1$ respectively. The $n$ th term of the sequence is $2009$ . What is $n$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 255 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 502 \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 1004 \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 1506 \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 8037$

Solution

Problem 8
Four congruent rectangles are placed as shown. The area of the outer square is $4$ times that of the inner square. What is the ratio of the length of the longer side of each rectangle to the length of its shorter side?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 3 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ \sqrt {10} \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 2 + \sqrt2 \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 2\sqrt3 \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 4$

Solution

Problem 9
Suppose that $f(x+3)=3x^2 + 7x + 4$ and $f(x)=ax^2 + bx + c$ . What is $a+b+c$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ -1 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 0 \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 1 \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 2 \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 3$

Solution

Problem 10
In quadrilateral $ABCD$ , $AB = 5$ , $BC = 17$ , $CD = 5$ , $DA = 9$ , and $BD$ is an integer. What is $BD$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 11 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 12 \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 13 \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 14 \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 15$

Solution

Problem 11
The figures $F_1$ , $F_2$ , $F_3$ , and $F_4$ shown are the first in a sequence of figures. For $n\ge3$ , $F_n$ is constructed from $F_{n - 1}$ by surrounding it with a square and placing one more diamond on each side of the new square than $F_{n - 1}$ had on each side of its outside square. For example, figure $F_3$ has $13$ diamonds. How many diamonds are there in figure $F_{20}$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 401 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 485 \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 585 \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 626 \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 761$

Solution

Problem 12
How many positive integers less than $1000$ are $6$ times the sum of their digits?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 0 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 1 \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 2 \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 4 \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 12$

Solution

Problem 13
[asy] unitsize(2mm); defaultpen(linewidth(.8pt)+fontsize(10pt)); dotfactor=4; pair B=(0,0), A=(-10,0), C=20*dir(50); draw(A--B--C); draw(A--C,linetype("4 4")); dot(A); dot(B); dot(C); label("$10$",midpoint(A--B),S); label("$20$",midpoint(B--C),SE); label("$A$",A,SW); label("$B$",B,SE); label("$C$",C,NE); [/asy]

$\textbf{(A)}\ [400,500] \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ [500,600] \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ [600,700] \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ [700,800] \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ [800,900]$

Solution

Problem 14
A triangle has vertices $(0,0)$ , $(1,1)$ , and $(6m,0)$ , and the line $y = mx$ divides the triangle into two triangles of equal area. What is the sum of all possible values of $m$ ?

$\textbf{(A)} - \!\frac {1}{3} \qquad \textbf{(B)} - \!\frac {1}{6} \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ \frac {1}{6} \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ \frac {1}{3} \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ \frac {1}{2}$

Solution

Problem 15
For what value of $n$ is $i + 2i^2 + 3i^3 + \cdots + ni^n = 48 + 49i$ ? Note: here $i = \sqrt { - 1}$ .

$\textbf{(A)}\ 24 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 48 \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 49 \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 97 \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 98$

Solution

Problem 16
A circle with center $C$ is tangent to the positive $x$ and $y$ -axes and externally tangent to the circle centered at $(3,0)$ with radius $1$ . What is the sum of all possible radii of the circle with center $C$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 3 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 4 \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 6 \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 8 \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 9$

Solution

Problem 17
Let $a + ar_1 + ar_1^2 + ar_1^3 + \cdots$ and $a + ar_2 + ar_2^2 + ar_2^3 + \cdots$ be two different infinite geometric series of positive numbers with the same first term. The sum of the first series is $r_1$ , and the sum of the second series is $r_2$ . What is $r_1 + r_2$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 0\qquad \textbf{(B)}\ \frac {1}{2}\qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 1\qquad \textbf{(D)}\ \frac {1 + \sqrt {5}}{2}\qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 2$

Solution

Problem 18
For $k > 0$ , let $I_k = 10\ldots 064$ , where there are $k$ zeros between the $1$ and the $6$ . Let $N(k)$ be the number of factors of $2$ in the prime factorization of $I_k$ . What is the maximum value of $N(k)$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 6\qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 7\qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 8\qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 9\qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 10$

Solution

Problem 19
Andrea inscribed a circle inside a regular pentagon, circumscribed a circle around the pentagon, and calculated the area of the region between the two circles. Bethany did the same with a regular heptagon (7 sides). The areas of the two regions were $A$ and $B$ , respectively. Each polygon had a side length of $2$ . Which of the following is true?

$\textbf{(A)}\ A = \frac {25}{49}B\qquad \textbf{(B)}\ A = \frac {5}{7}B\qquad \textbf{(C)}\ A = B\qquad \textbf{(D)}\ A$ $= \frac {7}{5}B\qquad \textbf{(E)}\ A = \frac {49}{25}B$

Solution

Problem 20
Convex quadrilateral $ABCD$ has $AB = 9$ and $CD = 12$ . Diagonals $AC$ and $BD$ intersect at $E$ , $AC = 14$ , and $\triangle AED$ and $\triangle BEC$ have equal areas. What is $AE$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ \frac {9}{2}\qquad \textbf{(B)}\ \frac {50}{11}\qquad \textbf{(C)}\ \frac {21}{4}\qquad \textbf{(D)}\ \frac {17}{3}\qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 6$

Solution

Problem 21
Let $p(x) = x^3 + ax^2 + bx + c$ , where $a$ , $b$ , and $c$ are complex numbers. Suppose that What is the number of nonreal zeros of $x^{12} + ax^8 + bx^4 + c$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 4\qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 6\qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 8\qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 10\qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 12$

Solution

Problem 22
A regular octahedron has side length $1$ . A plane parallel to two of its opposite faces cuts the octahedron into the two congruent solids. The polygon formed by the intersection of the plane and the octahedron has area $\frac {a\sqrt {b}}{c}$ , where $a$ , $b$ , and $c$ are positive integers, $a$ and $c$ are relatively prime, and $b$ is not divisible by the square of any prime. What is $a + b + c$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 10\qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 11\qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 12\qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 13\qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 14$

Solution

Problem 23
Functions $f$ and $g$ are quadratic, $g(x) = - f(100 - x)$ , and the graph of $g$ contains the vertex of the graph of $f$ . The four $x$ -intercepts on the two graphs have $x$ -coordinates $x_1$ , $x_2$ , $x_3$ , and $x_4$ , in increasing order, and $x_3 - x_2 = 150$ . Then $x_4 - x_1 = m + n\sqrt p$ , where $m$ , $n$ , and $p$ are positive integers, and $p$ is not divisible by the square of any prime. What is $m + n + p$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 602\qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 652\qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 702\qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 752 \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 802$

Solution

Problem 24
The tower function of twos is defined recursively as follows: $T(1) = 2$ and $T(n + 1) = 2^{T(n)}$ for $n\ge1$ . Let $A = (T(2009))^{T(2009)}$ and $B = (T(2009))^A$ . What is the largest integer $k$ such that \[\underbrace{\log_2\log_2\log_2\ldots\log_2B}_{k\text{ times}}\] is defined?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 2009\qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 2010\qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 2011\qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 2012\qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 2013$

Solution

Problem 25
The first two terms of a sequence are $a_1 = 1$ and $a_2 = \frac {1}{\sqrt3}$ . For $n\ge1$ , What is $|a_{2009}|$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 0\qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 2 - \sqrt3\qquad \textbf{(C)}\ \frac {1}{\sqrt3}\qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 1\qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 2 + \sqrt3$

Solution
