# 2013 AMC 12A Problem 20

## Problem

Let $S$ be the set $\{1,2,3,...,19\}$ . For $a,b \in S$ , define $a \succ b$ to mean that either $0 < a - b \le 9$ or $b - a > 9$ . How many ordered triples $(x,y,z)$ of elements of $S$ have the property that $x \succ y$ , $y \succ z$ , and $z \succ x$ ?

$\textbf{(A)} \ 810 \qquad \textbf{(B)} \ 855 \qquad \textbf{(C)} \ 900 \qquad \textbf{(D)} \ 950 \qquad \textbf{(E)} \ 988$

## Solution 1
Imagine that the 19 numbers are just 19 persons sitting evenly around a circle $C$ ; each of them is facing to the center.
One may check that $x \succ y$ if and only if $y$ is one of the 9 persons on the left of $x$ , and $y \succ x$ if and only if $y$ is one of the 9 persons on the right of $x$ . Therefore, " $x \succ y$ and $y \succ z$ and $z \succ x$ " implies that $x, y, z$ cuts the circumference of $C$ into three arcs, each of which has no more than $10$ numbers sitting on it (inclusive).
We count the complement: where the cut generated by $(x,y,z)$ has ONE arc that has more than $10$ persons sitting on. Note that there can only be one such arc because there are only $19$ persons in total.
Suppose the number of persons on the longest arc is $k>10$ . Then two places of $x,y,z$ are just chosen from the two end-points of the arc, and there are $19-k$ possible places for the third person. Once the three places of $x,y,z$ are chosen, there are three possible ways to put $x,y,z$ into them clockwise. Also, note that for any $k>10$ , there are $19$ ways to choose an arc of length $k$ . Therefore the total number of ways (of the complement) is
\[\sum_{k=11}^{18} 3\cdot 19 \cdot (19-k) = 3\cdot 19 \cdot (1+\cdots+8) = 3\cdot 19\cdot 36\]
So the answer is
\[3\cdot \binom{19}{3} - 3\cdot 19\cdot 36 = 3\cdot 19 \cdot (51 - 36) = 855\]
NOTE: this multiple-choice problem can be done even faster -- after we realized the fact that each choice of the three places of $x,y,z$ corresponds to $3$ possible ways to put them in, and that each arc of length $k>10$ has $19$ equitable positions, it is evident that the answer should be divisible by $3\cdot 19$ , which can only be $855$ from the five choices.

## Solution 2
First, we can find out that the only $x, y, z$ that satisfy the conditions in the problem are $(1 \leq z-y \leq 9 , 1 \leq y-x \leq 9 , z-x \geq 10)$ , $(1 \leq y-x \leq 9 , 1 \leq x-z \leq 9 , y-z \geq 10)$ , and $(1 \leq x-z \leq 9 , 1 \leq z-y \leq 9 , x-y \geq 10)$ .
Consider the 1st set of conditions for $x, y, z$ . We get that there are
\[45\cdot 10 - \sum_{k=1}^{9} \binom{k+1}{2} = 285\]
cases for the first set of conditions.
Since the 2nd and 3rd set of conditions are simply rotations of the 1st set, the total number of cases is
\[3\cdot 285 = \fbox{(B)855}\]

## Solution 3 (Common sense)
The conditions are very strange. The major way $x,y,z$ can satisfy is if $(1 \leq z-y \leq 9 , 1 \leq y-x \leq 9 , z-x \geq 10)$ because at this point $z > x$ no matter what. This is the only case that works, but we can rotate the variables around, so our answer is a multiple of $3$ .
Suppose $z=y+a$ and $y=x+b$ where $0<a,b<10$ . That means $z=x+a+b$ and $10 \leq z \leq 18$ . WLOG $z>y>x$ . Start casework on what $a+b$ is, anywhere from $10$ to $18$ . There are 2 main factors: 1. the number of ways to choose $a,b$ , which is $a+b-1$ . 2. the number of ways to choose $x$ or start the sequence, which is $19-(a+b)$ The sum of all cases turns out to be the sum of squares from $9^2$ to $1^2$ , which is $\frac{9 \cdot 10 \cdot 19}{2 \cdot 3}$ . Multiply that by $3$ and get $\fbox{(B)855}$
~dragnin

## Solution 4 (Modular Arithmetic)
Note that if we take $a, b, c\mod{19}$ , the conditions are equivalent to $0<a-b\le{9}\mod{19}$ , $0<b-c\le{9}\mod{19}$ , and $0<c-a\le{9}\mod{19}$ . Let $m=a-b, n=b-c$ . We have $19$ ways to pick $a$ , and $81$ cases in our sample space for $m, n$ . Of these cases, only those where $m+n>9$ will work. By stars and bars, this turns out to be $\binom{10}{2}=45$ , hence the answer is $45*19=\fbox{(B)855}$ . ~sigmapie

## Solution 5 (pretty braindead)
$x \succ_1 y$ will denote the first inequality, and $x\succ_2 y$ will denote the second.
We soon see that we cannot have $x\succ_1 y \succ_1 z \succ_1 x$ by adding the inequalities we obtain from them together, as it results in $0<0$ .
Similarly, we can't have $x\succ_2 y \succ_2 z \succ_2 x$ . $x\succ_2 y \succ_2 z \succ_1 x$ is also not possible by observing the inequalities.
Thus, we only have to consider $x \succ_1 y\succ_1 z \succ_2 x$ . Something like $x \succ_2 y \succ_1 z \succ_1 x$ is just a rotation of this case.
Here, we start with $0<x-y\le 9$ , $0<y-z\le 9$ , and $x-z > 9$ . We begin with casework on $z$ , since it is the smallest.
When $z=1$ , $x$ can range from $[11,19]$ . There are $9+8+7+6+5+4+3+2+1 = 45$ different values for $y$ as x ranges across $11-19$ .
When $z=2$ , $x$ can range from $[12-19]$ . There are $9+8+7+6+5+4+3+2 = 44$ different values for $y$ as x ranges across $12-19$ .
Continuing this pattern, we get the sum $45+44+42+39+35+30+24+17+9 = 285$ . Multiplying by three to count for rotations, we get $\boxed{(\textbf{B}) 855}$ .
-skibbysiggy
These problems are copyrighted © by the Mathematical Association of America.
These problems are copyrighted © by the Mathematical Association of America.
These problems are copyrighted © by the Mathematical Association of America.
These problems are copyrighted © by the Mathematical Association of America .