Problem 1
The ratio $\frac{10^{2000}+10^{2002}}{10^{2001}+10^{2001}}$ is closest to which of the following numbers? $\text{(A)}\ 0.1 \qquad \text{(B)}\ 0.2 \qquad \text{(C)}\ 1 \qquad \text{(D)}\ 5 \qquad \text{(E)}\ 10$ Solutions

Solution

Problem 2
For the nonzero numbers $a$ , $b$ , $c$ , define $(a, b, c) = \frac{a}{b} + \frac{b}{c} + \frac{c}{a}$ . Find $(2, 12, 9)$ . $\text{(A)}\ 4 \qquad \text{(B)}\ 5 \qquad \text{(C)}\ 6 \qquad \text{(D)}\ 7 \qquad \text{(E)}\ 8$

Solution

Problem 3
According to the standard convention for exponentiation, $2^{2^{2^2}} = 2^{\left(2^{\left(2^2\right)}\right)} = 2^{16} = 65,536$ . If the order in which the exponentiations are performed is changed, how many other values are possible? $\text{(A)}\ 0 \qquad \text{(B)}\ 1 \qquad \text{(C)}\ 2 \qquad \text{(D)}\ 3 \qquad \text{(E)}\ 4$

Solution

Problem 4
For how many positive integers $m$ does there exist at least one positive integer $n$ such that $mn \le m + n$ ? $\text{(A)}\ 4 \qquad \text{(B)}\ 6 \qquad \text{(C)}\ 9 \qquad \text{(D)}\ 12 \qquad \text{(E)}$ infinitely many

Solution

Problem 5
Each of the small circles in the figure has radius one. The innermost circle is tangent to the six circles that surround it, and each of those circles is tangent to the large circle and to its small-circle neighbors. Find the area of the shaded region.
[asy] unitsize(.3cm); path c=Circle((0,2),1); filldraw(Circle((0,0),3),grey,black); filldraw(Circle((0,0),1),white,black); filldraw(c,white,black); filldraw(rotate(60)*c,white,black); filldraw(rotate(120)*c,white,black); filldraw(rotate(180)*c,white,black); filldraw(rotate(240)*c,white,black); filldraw(rotate(300)*c,white,black); [/asy]
$\text{(A)}\ \pi \qquad \text{(B)}\ 1.5\pi \qquad \text{(C)}\ 2\pi \qquad \text{(D)}\ 3\pi \qquad \text{(E)}\ 3.5\pi$

Solution

Problem 6
Cindy was asked by her teacher to subtract $3$ from a certain number and then divide the result by $9$ . Instead, she subtracted $9$ and then divided the result by $3$ , giving an answer of $43$ . What would her answer have been had she worked the problem correctly? $\text{(A)}\ 15 \qquad \text{(B)}\ 34 \qquad \text{(C)}\ 43 \qquad \text{(D)}\ 51 \qquad \text{(E)} 138$

Solution

Problem 7
If an arc of $45^\circ$ on circle $A$ has the same length as an arc of $30^\circ$ on circle $B$ , then the ratio of the area of circle $A$ to the area of circle $B$ is $\text{(A)}\ 4/9 \qquad \text{(B)}\ 2/3 \qquad \text{(C)}\ 5/6 \qquad \text{(D)}\ 3/2 \qquad \text{(E)}\ 9/4$

Solution

Problem 8
Betsy designed a flag using blue triangles, small white squares, and a red center square, as shown. Let $B$ be the total area of the blue triangles, $W$ the total area of the white squares, and $R$ the area of the red square. Which of the following is correct?
[asy] unitsize(3mm); fill((-4,-4)--(-4,4)--(4,4)--(4,-4)--cycle,blue); fill((-2,-2)--(-2,2)--(2,2)--(2,-2)--cycle,red); path onewhite=(-3,3)--(-2,4)--(-1,3)--(-2,2)--(-3,3)--(-1,3)--(0,4)--(1,3)--(0,2)--(-1,3)--(1,3)--(2,4)--(3,3)--(2,2)--(1,3)--cycle; path divider=(-2,2)--(-3,3)--cycle; fill(onewhite,white); fill(rotate(90)*onewhite,white); fill(rotate(180)*onewhite,white); fill(rotate(270)*onewhite,white); [/asy]
$\text{(A)}\ B = W \qquad \text{(B)}\ W = R \qquad \text{(C)}\ B = R \qquad \text{(D)}\ 3B = 2R \qquad \text{(E)}\ 2R = W$

Solution

Problem 9
There are 3 numbers A, B, and C, such that $1001C - 2002A = 4004$ , and $1001B + 3003A = 5005$ . What is the average of A, B, and C?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 1 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 3 \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 6 \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 9 \qquad \textbf{(E) }\text{Not uniquely determined}$

Solution

Problem 10
Compute the sum of all the roots of $(2x + 3)(x - 4) + (2x + 3)(x - 6) = 0$ . $\text{(A)}\ 7/2 \qquad \text{(B)}\ 4 \qquad \text{(C)}\ 5 \qquad \text{(D)}\ 7 \qquad \text{(E)}\ 13$

Solution

Problem 11
Jamal wants to store $30$ computer files on floppy disks, each of which has a capacity of $1.44$ megabytes (MB). Three of his files require $0.8$ MB of memory each, $12$ more require $0.7$ MB each, and the remaining $15$ require $0.4$ MB each. No file can be split between floppy disks. What is the minimal number of floppy disks that will hold all the files? $\text{(A)}\ 12 \qquad \text{(B)}\ 13 \qquad \text{(C)}\ 14 \qquad \text{(D)}\ 15 \qquad \text{(E)} 16$

Solution

Problem 12
Mr. Earl E. Bird leaves his house for work at exactly 8:00 A.M. every morning. When he averages $40$ miles per hour, he arrives at his workplace three minutes late. When he averages $60$ miles per hour, he arrives three minutes early. At what average speed, in miles per hour, should Mr. Bird drive to arrive at his workplace precisely on time? $\text{(A)}\ 45 \qquad \text{(B)}\ 48 \qquad \text{(C)}\ 50 \qquad \text{(D)}\ 55 \qquad \text{(E)} 58$

Solution

Problem 13
The sides of a triangle have lengths 15, 20, and 25. Find the length of the shortest altitude. $\text{(A)}\ 6 \qquad \text{(B)}\ 12 \qquad \text{(C)}\ 12.5 \qquad \text{(D)}\ 13 \qquad \text{(E)}\ 15$

Solution

Problem 14
Both roots of the quadratic equation $x^2 - 63x + k = 0$ are prime numbers. The number of possible values of $k$ is $\text{(A)}\ 0 \qquad \text{(B)}\ 1 \qquad \text{(C)}\ 2 \qquad \text{(D)}\ 4 \qquad \text{(E) more than 4}$

Solution

Problem 15
The digits $1$ , $2$ , $3$ , $4$ , $5$ , $6$ , $7$ , and $9$ are used to form four two-digit prime numbers, with each digit used exactly once. What is the sum of these four primes? $\text{(A)}\ 150 \qquad \text{(B)}\ 160 \qquad \text{(C)}\ 170 \qquad \text{(D)}\ 180 \qquad \text{(E)}\ 190$

Solution

Problem 16
If $a + 1 = b + 2 = c + 3 = d + 4 = a + b + c + d + 5$ , then $a + b + c + d$ is $\text{(A)}\ -5 \qquad \text{(B)}\ -10/3 \qquad \text{(C)}\ -7/3 \qquad \text{(D)}\ 5/3 \qquad \text{(E)}\ 5$

Solution

Problem 17
Sarah pours four ounces of coffee into an eight-ounce cup and four ounces of cream into a second cup of the same size. She then transfers half the coffee from the first cup to the second and, after stirring thoroughly, transfers half the liquid in the second cup back to the first. What fraction of the liquid in the first cup is now cream? $\text{(A)}\ 1/4 \qquad \text{(B)}\ 1/3 \qquad \text{(C)}\ 3/8 \qquad \text{(D)}\ 2/5 \qquad \text{(E)} 1/2$

Solution

Problem 18
A $3 \times 3 \times 3$ cube is formed by gluing together 27 standard cubical dice. (On a standard die, the sum of the numbers on any pair of opposite faces is 7.) The smallest possible sum of all the numbers showing on the surface of the $3 \times 3 \times 3$ cube is $\text{(A)}\ 60 \qquad \text{(B)}\ 72 \qquad \text{(C)}\ 84 \qquad \text{(D)}\ 90 \qquad \text{(E)} 96$

Solution

Problem 19
Spot's doghouse has a regular hexagonal base that measures one yard on each side. He is tethered to a vertex with a two-yard rope. What is the area, in square yards, of the region outside of the doghouse that Spot can reach? $\text{(A)}\ 2\pi/3 \qquad \text{(B)}\ 2\pi \qquad \text{(C)}\ 5\pi/2 \qquad \text{(D)}\ 8\pi/3 \qquad \text{(E)}\ 3\pi$

Solution

Problem 20
Points $A,B,C,D,E$ and $F$ lie, in that order, on $\overline{AF}$ , dividing it into five segments, each of length 1. Point $G$ is not on line $AF$ . Point $H$ lies on $\overline{GD}$ , and point $J$ lies on $\overline{GF}$ . The line segments $\overline{HC}, \overline{JE},$ and $\overline{AG}$ are parallel. Find $HC/JE$ . $\text{(A)}\ 5/4 \qquad \text{(B)}\ 4/3 \qquad \text{(C)}\ 3/2 \qquad \text{(D)}\ 5/3 \qquad \text{(E)}\ 2$

Solution

Problem 21
The mean, median, unique mode, and range of a collection of eight integers are all equal to 8. The largest integer that can be an element of this collection is $\text{(A)}\ 11 \qquad \text{(B)}\ 12 \qquad \text{(C)}\ 13 \qquad \text{(D)}\ 14 \qquad \text{(E)}\ 15$

Solution

Problem 22
A set of tiles numbered 1 through 100 is modified repeatedly by the following operation: remove all tiles numbered with a perfect square , and renumber the remaining tiles consecutively starting with 1. How many times must the operation be performed to reduce the number of tiles in the set to one? $\text{(A)}\ 10 \qquad \text{(B)}\ 11 \qquad \text{(C)}\ 18 \qquad \text{(D)}\ 19 \qquad \text{(E)}\ 20$

Solution

Problem 23
Points $A,B,C$ and $D$ lie on a line, in that order, with $AB = CD$ and $BC = 12$ . Point $E$ is not on the line, and $BE = CE = 10$ . The perimeter of $\triangle AED$ is twice the perimeter of $\triangle BEC$ . Find $AB$ . $\text{(A)}\ 15/2 \qquad \text{(B)}\ 8 \qquad \text{(C)}\ 17/2 \qquad \text{(D)}\ 9 \qquad \text{(E)}\ 19/2$

Solution

Problem 24
Tina randomly selects two distinct numbers from the set $\{1, 2, 3, 4, 5\}$ , and Sergio randomly selects a number from the set $\{1, 2, ..., 10\}$ . The probability that Sergio's number is larger than the sum of the two numbers chosen by Tina is $\text{(A)}\ 2/5 \qquad \text{(B)}\ 9/20 \qquad \text{(C)}\ 1/2 \qquad \text{(D)}\ 11/20 \qquad \text{(E)}\ 24/25$

Solution

Problem 25
[asy] pair A,B,C,D; A=(0,0); B=(52,0); C=(38,20); D=(5,20); dot(A); dot(B); dot(C); dot(D); draw(A--B--C--D--cycle); label("$A$",A,S); label("$B$",B,S); label("$C$",C,N); label("$D$",D,N); label("52",(A+B)/2,S); label("39",(C+D)/2,N); label("12",(B+C)/2,E); label("5",(D+A)/2,W); [/asy]
$\text{(A)}\ 182 \qquad \text{(B)}\ 195 \qquad \text{(C)}\ 210 \qquad \text{(D)}\ 234 \qquad \text{(E)}\ 260$

Solution
