Problem 1
Leah has $13$ coins, all of which are pennies and nickels. If she had one more nickel than she has now, then she would have the same number of pennies as nickels. In cents, how much are Leah's coins worth? $\textbf {(A) } 33 \qquad \textbf {(B) } 35 \qquad \textbf {(C) } 37 \qquad \textbf {(D) } 39 \qquad \textbf {(E) } 41$

Solution

Problem 2
What is $\frac{2^3 + 2^3}{2^{-3} + 2^{-3}}$ ? $\textbf {(A) } 16 \qquad \textbf {(B) } 24 \qquad \textbf {(C) } 32 \qquad \textbf {(D) } 48 \qquad \textbf {(E) } 64$

Solution

Problem 3
Peter drove the first third of his trip on a gravel road, the next $20$ miles on pavement, and the remaining one-fifth on a dirt road. In miles how long was Peter's trip? $\textbf {(A) } 30 \qquad \textbf {(B) } \frac{400}{11} \qquad \textbf {(C) } \frac{75}{2} \qquad \textbf {(D) } 40 \qquad \textbf {(E) } \frac{300}{7}$

Solution

Problem 4
Susie pays for $4$ muffins and $3$ bananas. Calvin spends twice as much paying for $2$ muffins and $16$ bananas. A muffin is how many times as expensive as a banana? $\textbf {(A) } \frac{3}{2} \qquad \textbf {(B) } \frac{5}{3} \qquad \textbf {(C) } \frac{7}{4} \qquad \textbf {(D) } 2 \qquad \textbf {(E) } \frac{13}{4}$

Solution

Problem 5
[asy] fill((0,0)--(25,0)--(25,25)--(0,25)--cycle,grey); for(int i = 0; i < 4; ++i){ for(int j = 0; j < 2; ++j){ fill((6*i+2,11*j+3)--(6*i+5,11*j+3)--(6*i+5,11*j+11)--(6*i+2,11*j+11)--cycle,white); } }[/asy]

Solution

Problem 6
Orvin went to the store with just enough money to buy $30$ balloons. When he arrived, he discovered that the store had a special sale on balloons: buy $1$ balloon at the regular price and get a second at $\frac{1}{3}$ off the regular price. What is the greatest number of balloons Orvin could buy? $\textbf {(A) } 33 \qquad \textbf {(B) } 34 \qquad \textbf {(C) } 36 \qquad \textbf {(D) } 38 \qquad \textbf {(E) } 39$

Solution

Problem 7
Suppose $A>B>0$ and $A$ is $x\%$ greater than $B$ . What is $x$ ? $\textbf {(A) } 100\left(\frac{A-B}{B}\right) \qquad \textbf {(B) } 100\left(\frac{A+B}{B}\right) \qquad \textbf {(C) } 100\left(\frac{A+B}{A}\right)\qquad \textbf {(D) } 100\left(\frac{A-B}{A}\right) \qquad \textbf {(E) } 100\left(\frac{A}{B}\right)$

Solution

Problem 8
A truck travels $\frac{b}{6}$ feet every $t$ seconds. There are $3$ feet in a yard. How many yards does the truck travel in $3$ minutes? $\textbf {(A) } \frac{b}{1080t} \qquad \textbf {(B) } \frac{30t}{b} \qquad \textbf {(C) } \frac{30b}{t}\qquad \textbf {(D) } \frac{10t}{b} \qquad \textbf {(E) } \frac{10b}{t}$

Solution

Problem 9
For real numbers $w$ and $z$ , \[\frac{\frac{1}{w} + \frac{1}{z}}{\frac{1}{w} - \frac{1}{z}} = 2014.\] What is $\frac{w+z}{w-z}$ ?

$\textbf{(A) } -2014 \qquad\textbf{(B) } \frac{-1}{2014} \qquad\textbf{(C) } \frac{1}{2014} \qquad\textbf{(D) } 1 \qquad\textbf{(E) } 2014$

Solution

Problem 10
In the addition shown below $A, B, C,$ and $D$ are distinct digits. How many different values are possible for $D$ ? \[\begin{array}{lr}&ABBCB\\ +& BCADA\\ \hline & DBDDD\end{array}\]

$\textbf{(A) }2\qquad\textbf{(B) }4\qquad\textbf{(C) }7\qquad\textbf{(D) }8\qquad\textbf{(E) }9$

Solution

Problem 11
For the consumer, a single discount of $n\%$ is more advantageous than any of the following discounts: (1) two successive $15\%$ discounts (2) three successive $10\%$ discounts (3) a $25\%$ discount followed by a $5\%$ discount What is the smallest possible positive integer value of $n$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ \ 27\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 28\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 29\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 31\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 33$

Solution

Problem 12
The largest divisor of $2,014,000,000$ is itself. What is its fifth largest divisor?

$\textbf{(A)}\ \ 125,875,000\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 201,400,000\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 251,750,000\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 402,800,000\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 503,500,000$

Solution

Problem 13
Six regular hexagons surround a regular hexagon of side length $1$ as shown. What is the area of $\triangle ABC$ ?
[asy] for(int i = 0; i < 6; ++i){ for(int j = 0; j < 6; ++j){ draw(sqrt(3)*dir(60*i+30)+dir(60*j)--sqrt(3)*dir(60*i+30)+dir(60*j+60)); } } draw(2*dir(60)--2*dir(180)--2*dir(300)--cycle); label("A",2*dir(180),dir(180)); label("B",2*dir(60),dir(60)); label("C",2*dir(300),dir(300)); [/asy]
$\textbf {(A) } 2\sqrt{3} \qquad \textbf {(B) } 3\sqrt{3} \qquad \textbf {(C) } 1+3\sqrt{2} \qquad \textbf {(D) } 2+2\sqrt{3} \qquad \textbf {(E) } 3+2\sqrt{3}$

Solution

Problem 14
Danica drove her new car on a trip for a whole number of hours, averaging $55$ miles per hour. At the beginning of the trip, $abc$ miles was displayed on the odometer, where $abc$ is a 3-digit number with $a \ge 1$ and $a + b + c \le 7$ . At the end of the trip, the odometer showed $cba$ miles. What is $a^2 + b^2 + c^2$ ? $\textbf {(A) } 26 \qquad \textbf {(B) } 27 \qquad \textbf {(C) } 36 \qquad \textbf {(D) } 37 \qquad \textbf {(E) }41$

Solution

Problem 15
In rectangle $ABCD$ , $DC=2 \cdot CB$ and points $E$ and $F$ lie on $\overline{AB}$ so that $\overline{ED}$ and $\overline{FD}$ trisect $\angle ADC$ as shown. What is the ratio of the area of $\triangle DEF$ to the area of rectangle $ABCD$ ?
[asy] pair A = (0,1), B = (2,1), C = (2,0), D = (0,0); pair E = intersectionpoint(A--B,D--2*dir(60)), F = intersectionpoint(A--B,D--3*dir(30)); draw(A--D--C--B--cycle); draw(E--D--F); label("A",A,N); label("B",B,N); label("C",C,S); label("D",D,S); label("E",E,N); label("F",F,N); [/asy]

$\textbf{(A)}\ \ \frac{\sqrt{3}}{6}\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ \frac{\sqrt{6}}{8}\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ \frac{3\sqrt{3}}{16}\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ \frac{1}{3}\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ \frac{\sqrt{2}}{4}$

Solution

Problem 16
Four fair six-sided dice are rolled. What is the probability that at least three of the four dice show the same value? $\textbf {(A) } \frac{1}{36} \qquad \textbf {(B) } \frac{7}{72} \qquad \textbf {(C) } \frac{1}{9}\qquad \textbf {(D) } \frac{5}{36} \qquad \textbf {(E) } \frac{1}{6}$

Solution

Problem 17
What is the greatest power of $2$ that is a factor of $10^{1002} - 4^{501}$ ?

$\textbf{(A) } 2^{1002} \qquad\textbf{(B) } 2^{1003} \qquad\textbf{(C) } 2^{1004} \qquad\textbf{(D) } 2^{1005} \qquad\textbf{(E) }2^{1006}$

Solution

Problem 18
A list of $11$ positive integers has a mean of $10$ , a median of $9$ , and a unique mode of $8$ . What is the largest possible value of an integer in the list? $\textbf {(A) } 24 \qquad \textbf {(B) } 30 \qquad \textbf {(C) } 31\qquad \textbf {(D) } 33 \qquad \textbf {(E) } 35$

Solution

Problem 19
Two concentric circles have radii $1$ and $2$ . Two points on the outer circle are chosen independently and uniformly at random. What is the probability that the chord joining the two points intersects the inner circle?

$\textbf{(A) }\frac{1}{6}\qquad\textbf{(B) }\frac{1}{4}\qquad\textbf{(C) }\frac{2-\sqrt{2}}{2}\qquad\textbf{(D) }\frac{1}{3}\qquad\textbf{(E) }\frac{1}{2}\qquad$

Solution

Problem 20
For how many integers $x$ is the number $x^4 - 51x^2 + 50$ negative? $\textbf {(A) } 8 \qquad \textbf {(B) } 10 \qquad \textbf {(C) } 12\qquad \textbf {(D) } 14 \qquad \textbf {(E) }16$

Solution

Problem 21
Trapezoid $ABCD$ has parallel sides $\overline{AB}$ of length $33$ and $\overline{CD}$ of length $21$ . The other two sides are of lengths $10$ and $14$ . The angles at $A$ and $B$ are acute. What is the length of the shorter diagonal of $ABCD$ ?

$\textbf{(A) } 10\sqrt{6} \qquad\textbf{(B) } 25 \qquad\textbf{(C) } 8\sqrt{10} \qquad\textbf{(D) } 18\sqrt{2} \qquad\textbf{(E) } 26$

Solution

Problem 22
Eight semicircles line the inside of a square with side length 2 as shown. What is the radius of the circle tangent to all of these semicircles? $\text{(A) } \dfrac{1+\sqrt2}4 \quad \text{(B) } \dfrac{\sqrt5-1}2 \quad \text{(C) } \dfrac{\sqrt3+1}4 \quad \text{(D) } \dfrac{2\sqrt3}5 \quad \text{(E) } \dfrac{\sqrt5}3$
[asy] scale(200); draw(scale(.5)*((-1,-1)--(1,-1)--(1,1)--(-1,1)--cycle)); path p = arc((.25,-.5),.25,0,180)--arc((-.25,-.5),.25,0,180); draw(p); p=rotate(90)*p; draw(p); p=rotate(90)*p; draw(p); p=rotate(90)*p; draw(p); draw(scale((sqrt(5)-1)/4)*unitcircle); [/asy]

Solution

Problem 23
A sphere is inscribed in a truncated right circular cone as shown. The volume of the truncated cone is twice that of the sphere. What is the ratio of the radius of the bottom base of the truncated cone to the radius of the top base of the truncated cone?
[asy] real r=(3+sqrt(5))/2; real s=sqrt(r); real Brad=r; real brad=1; real Fht = 2*s; import graph3; import solids; currentprojection=orthographic(1,0,.2); currentlight=(10,10,5); revolution sph=sphere((0,0,Fht/2),Fht/2); //draw(surface(sph),green+white+opacity(0.5)); //triple f(pair t) {return (t.x*cos(t.y),t.x*sin(t.y),t.x^(1/n)*sin(t.y/n));} triple f(pair t) { triple v0 = Brad*(cos(t.x),sin(t.x),0); triple v1 = brad*(cos(t.x),sin(t.x),0)+(0,0,Fht); return (v0 + t.y*(v1-v0)); } triple g(pair t) { return (t.y*cos(t.x),t.y*sin(t.x),0); } surface sback=surface(f,(3pi/4,0),(7pi/4,1),80,2); surface sfront=surface(f,(7pi/4,0),(11pi/4,1),80,2); surface base = surface(g,(0,0),(2pi,Brad),80,2); draw(sback,gray(0.3)); draw(sfront,gray(0.5)); draw(base,gray(0.9)); draw(surface(sph),gray(0.4));[/asy]
$\text{(A) } \dfrac32 \quad \text{(B) } \dfrac{1+\sqrt5}2 \quad \text{(C) } \sqrt3 \quad \text{(D) } 2 \quad \text{(E) } \dfrac{3+\sqrt5}2$

Solution

Problem 24
The numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 are to be arranged in a circle. An arrangement is bad if it is not true that for every $n$ from $1$ to $15$ one can find a subset of the numbers that appear consecutively on the circle that sum to $n$ . Arrangements that differ only by a rotation or a reflection are considered the same. How many different bad arrangements are there? $\textbf {(A) } 1 \qquad \textbf {(B) } 2 \qquad \textbf {(C) } 3 \qquad \textbf {(D) } 4 \qquad \textbf {(E) } 5$

Solution

Problem 25
In a small pond there are eleven lily pads in a row labeled $0$ through $10$ . A frog is sitting on pad $1$ . When the frog is on pad $N$ , $0<N<10$ , it will jump to pad $N-1$ with probability $\frac{N}{10}$ and to pad $N+1$ with probability $1-\frac{N}{10}$ . Each jump is independent of the previous jumps. If the frog reaches pad $0$ it will be eaten by a patiently waiting snake. If the frog reaches pad $10$ it will exit the pond, never to return. What is the probability that the frog will escape without being eaten by the snake? $\textbf {(A) } \frac{32}{79} \qquad \textbf {(B) } \frac{161}{384} \qquad \textbf {(C) } \frac{63}{146} \qquad \textbf {(D) } \frac{7}{16} \qquad \textbf {(E) } \frac{1}{2}$

Solution
