Problem 1
Mary thought of a positive two-digit number. She multiplied it by $3$ and added $11$ . Then she switched the digits of the result, obtaining a number between $71$ and $75$ , inclusive. What was Mary's number?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 11\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 12\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 13\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 14\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 15$

Solution

Problem 2
Sofia ran $5$ laps around the $400$ -meter track at her school. For each lap, she ran the first $100$ meters at an average speed of $4$ meters per second and the remaining $300$ meters at an average speed of $5$ meters per second. How much time did Sofia take running the $5$ laps?

$\textbf{(A)}\ \text{5 minutes and 35 seconds}\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ \text{6 minutes and 40 seconds}\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ \text{7 minutes and 5 seconds}\qquad$ $\textbf{(D)}\ \text{7 minutes and 25 seconds}\ \qquad\textbf{(E)}\ \text{8 minutes and 10 seconds}$

Solution

Problem 3
Real numbers $x$ , $y$ , and $z$ satisfy the inequalities $0<x<1$ , $-1<y<0$ , and $1<z<2$ . Which of the following numbers is necessarily positive?

$\textbf{(A)}\ y+x^2\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ y+xz\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ y+y^2\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ y+2y^2\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ y+z$

Solution

Problem 4
Suppose that $x$ and $y$ are nonzero real numbers such that $\frac{3x+y}{x-3y}=-2$ . What is the value of $\frac{x+3y}{3x-y}$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ -3\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ -1\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 1\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 2\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 3$

Solution

Problem 5
Camilla had twice as many blueberry jelly beans as cherry jelly beans. After eating $10$ pieces of each kind, she now has three times as many blueberry jelly beans as cherry jelly beans. How many blueberry jelly beans did she originally have?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 10\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 20\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 30\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 40\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 50$

Solution

Problem 6
What is the largest number of solid $2\text{ in.}$ by $2\text{ in.}$ by $1\text{ in.}$ blocks that can fit in a $3\text{ in.}$ by $2\text{ in.}$ by $3\text{ in.}$ box?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 3\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 4\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 5\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 6\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 7$

Solution

Problem 7
Samia set off on her bicycle to visit her friend, traveling at an average speed of $17$ kilometers per hour. When she had gone half the distance to her friend's house, a tire went flat, and she walked the rest of the way at $5$ kilometers per hour. In all it took her $44$ minutes to reach her friend's house. In kilometers rounded to the nearest tenth, how far did Samia walk?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 2.0\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 2.2\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 2.8\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 3.4\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 4.4$

Solution

Problem 8
Points $A(11, 9)$ and $B(2, -3)$ are vertices of $\triangle ABC$ with $AB=AC$ . The altitude from $A$ meets the opposite side at $D(-1, 3)$ . What are the coordinates of point $C$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ (-8, 9)\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ (-4, 8)\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ (-4, 9)\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ (-2, 3)\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ (-1, 0)$

Solution

Problem 9
A radio program has a quiz consisting of $3$ multiple-choice questions, each with $3$ choices. A contestant wins if he or she gets $2$ or more of the questions right. The contestant answers randomly to each question. What is the probability of winning?

$\textbf{(A)}\ \frac{1}{27}\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ \frac{1}{9}\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ \frac{2}{9}\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ \frac{7}{27}\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ \frac{1}{2}$

Solution

Problem 10
The lines with equations $ax-2y=c$ and $2x+by=-c$ are perpendicular and intersect at $(1, -5)$ . What is $c$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ -13\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ -8\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 2\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 8\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 13$

Solution

Problem 11
At Typico High School, $60\%$ of the students like dancing, and the rest dislike it. Of those who like dancing, $80\%$ say that they like it, and the rest say that they dislike it. Of those who dislike dancing, $90\%$ say that they dislike it, and the rest say that they like it. What fraction of students who say they dislike dancing actually like it?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 10\%\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 12\%\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 20\%\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 25\%\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 33\frac{1}{3}\%$

Solution

Problem 12
Elmer's new car gives $50\%$ better fuel efficiency. However, the new car uses diesel fuel, which is $20\%$ more expensive per liter than the gasoline the old car used. By what percent will Elmer save money if he uses his new car instead of his old car for a long trip?

$\textbf{(A) } 20\% \qquad \textbf{(B) } 26\tfrac23\% \qquad \textbf{(C) } 27\tfrac79\% \qquad \textbf{(D) } 33\tfrac13\% \qquad \textbf{(E) } 66\tfrac23\%$

Solution

Problem 13
There are $20$ students participating in an after-school program offering classes in yoga, bridge, and painting. Each student must take at least one of these three classes, but may take two or all three. There are $10$ students taking yoga, $13$ taking bridge, and $9$ taking painting. There are $9$ students taking at least two classes. How many students are taking all three classes?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 1\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 2\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 3\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 4\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 5$

Solution

Problem 14
An integer $N$ is selected at random in the range $1\leq N \leq 2020$ . What is the probability that the remainder when $N^{16}$ is divided by $5$ is $1$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ \frac{1}{5}\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ \frac{2}{5}\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ \frac{3}{5}\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ \frac{4}{5}\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 1$

Solution

Problem 15
Rectangle $ABCD$ has $AB=3$ and $BC=4$ . Point $E$ is the foot of the perpendicular from $B$ to diagonal $\overline{AC}$ . What is the area of $\triangle AED$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 1\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ \frac{42}{25}\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ \frac{28}{15}\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 2\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ \frac{54}{25}$

Solution

Problem 16
How many of the base-ten numerals for the positive integers less than or equal to $2017$ contain the digit $0$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 469\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 471\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 475\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 478\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 481$

Solution

Problem 17
Call a positive integer $\textbf{monotonous}$ if it is a one-digit number or its digits, when read from left to right, form either a strictly increasing or a strictly decreasing sequence. For example, $3$ , $23578$ , and $987620$ are monotonous, but $88$ , $7434$ , and $23557$ are not. How many monotonous positive integers are there?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 1024\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 1524\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 1533\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 1536\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 2048$

Solution

Problem 18
In the figure below, $3$ of the $6$ disks are to be painted blue, $2$ are to be painted red, and $1$ is to be painted green. Two paintings that can be obtained from one another by a rotation or a reflection of the entire figure are considered the same. How many different paintings are possible?
[asy] size(100); pair A, B, C, D, E, F; A = (0,0); B = (1,0); C = (2,0); D = rotate(60, A)*B; E = B + D; F = rotate(60, A)*C; draw(Circle(A, 0.5)); draw(Circle(B, 0.5)); draw(Circle(C, 0.5)); draw(Circle(D, 0.5)); draw(Circle(E, 0.5)); draw(Circle(F, 0.5)); [/asy]

$\textbf{(A)}\ 6\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 8\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 9\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 12\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 15$

Solution

Problem 19
Let $ABC$ be an equilateral triangle. Extend side $\overline{AB}$ beyond $B$ to a point $B'$ so that $BB'=3 \cdot AB$ . Similarly, extend side $\overline{BC}$ beyond $C$ to a point $C'$ so that $CC'=3 \cdot BC$ , and extend side $\overline{CA}$ beyond $A$ to a point $A'$ so that $AA'=3 \cdot CA$ . What is the ratio of the area of $\triangle A'B'C'$ to the area of $\triangle ABC$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 9:1\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 16:1\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 25:1\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 36:1\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 37:1$

Solution

Problem 20
The number $21!=51,090,942,171,709,440,000$ has over $60,000$ positive integer divisors. One of them is chosen at random. What is the probability that it is odd?

$\textbf{(A)}\ \frac{1}{21} \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ \frac{1}{19} \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ \frac{1}{18} \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ \frac{1}{2} \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ \frac{11}{21}$

Solution

Problem 21
In $\triangle ABC$ , $AB=6$ , $AC=8$ , $BC=10$ , and $D$ is the midpoint of $\overline{BC}$ . What is the sum of the radii of the circles inscribed in $\triangle ADB$ and $\triangle ADC$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ \sqrt{5}\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ \frac{11}{4}\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 2\sqrt{2}\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ \frac{17}{6}\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 3$

Solution

Problem 22
The diameter $AB$ of a circle of radius $2$ is extended to a point $D$ outside the circle so that $BD=3$ . Point $E$ is chosen so that $ED=5$ and line $ED$ is perpendicular to line $AD$ . Segment $AE$ intersects the circle at a point $C$ between $A$ and $E$ . What is the area of $\triangle ABC$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ \frac{120}{37}\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ \frac{140}{39}\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ \frac{145}{39}\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ \frac{140}{37}\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ \frac{120}{31}$

Solution

Problem 23
Let $N=123456789101112\dots4344$ be the $79$ -digit number that is formed by writing the integers from $1$ to $44$ in order, one after the other. What is the remainder when $N$ is divided by $45$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 1\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 4\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 9\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 18\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 44$

Solution

Problem 24
The vertices of an equilateral triangle lie on the hyperbola $xy=1$ , and a vertex of this hyperbola is the centroid of the triangle. What is the square of the area of the triangle?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 48\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 60\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 108\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 120\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 169$

Solution

Problem 25
Last year Isabella took $7$ math tests and received $7$ different scores, each an integer between $91$ and $100$ , inclusive. After each test she noticed that the average of her test scores was an integer. Her score on the seventh test was $95$ . What was her score on the sixth test?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 92\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 94\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 96\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 98\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 100$

Solution
