Problem 1
What is the value of \[\left(\left((2+1)^{-1}+1\right)^{-1}+1\right)^{-1}+1?\] $\textbf{(A) } \frac58 \qquad \textbf{(B) }\frac{11}7 \qquad \textbf{(C) } \frac85 \qquad \textbf{(D) } \frac{18}{11} \qquad \textbf{(E) } \frac{15}8$

Solution

Problem 2
Liliane has $50\%$ more soda than Jacqueline, and Alice has $25\%$ more soda than Jacqueline. What is the relationship between the amounts of soda that Liliane and Alice have?

$\textbf{(A)}$ Liliane has $20\%$ more soda than Alice.
$\textbf{(B)}$ Liliane has $25\%$ more soda than Alice.
$\textbf{(C)}$ Liliane has $45\%$ more soda than Alice.
$\textbf{(D)}$ Liliane has $75\%$ more soda than Alice.
$\textbf{(E)}$ Liliane has $100\%$ more soda than Alice.

Solution

Problem 3
A unit of blood expires after $10!=10\cdot 9 \cdot 8 \cdots 1$ seconds. Yasin donates a unit of blood at noon of January 1. On what day does his unit of blood expire?

$\textbf{(A) }\text{January 2}\qquad\textbf{(B) }\text{January 12}\qquad\textbf{(C) }\text{January 22}\qquad\textbf{(D) }\text{February 11}\qquad\textbf{(E) }\text{February 12}$

Solution

Problem 4
How many ways can a student schedule $3$ mathematics courses -- algebra, geometry, and number theory -- in a $6$ -period day if no two mathematics courses can be taken in consecutive periods? (What courses the student takes during the other $3$ periods is of no concern here.)

$\textbf{(A) }3\qquad\textbf{(B) }6\qquad\textbf{(C) }12\qquad\textbf{(D) }18\qquad\textbf{(E) }24$

Solution

Problem 5
Alice, Bob, and Charlie were on a hike and were wondering how far away the nearest town was. When Alice said, "We are at least $6$ miles away," Bob replied, "We are at most $5$ miles away." Charlie then remarked, "Actually the nearest town is at most $4$ miles away." It turned out that none of the three statements were true. Let $d$ be the distance in miles to the nearest town. Which of the following intervals is the set of all possible values of $d$ ?

$\textbf{(A) } (0,4) \qquad \textbf{(B) } (4,5) \qquad \textbf{(C) } (4,6) \qquad \textbf{(D) } (5,6) \qquad \textbf{(E) } (5,\infty)$

Solution

Problem 6
Sangho uploaded a video to a website where viewers can vote that they like or dislike a video. Each video begins with a score of $0$ , and the score increases by $1$ for each like vote and decreases by $1$ for each dislike vote. At one point Sangho saw that his video had a score of $90$ , and that $65\%$ of the votes cast on his video were like votes. How many votes had been cast on Sangho's video at that point?

$\textbf{(A) } 200 \qquad \textbf{(B) } 300 \qquad \textbf{(C) } 400 \qquad \textbf{(D) } 500 \qquad \textbf{(E) } 600$

Solution

Problem 7
For how many (not necessarily positive) integer values of $n$ is the value of $4000\cdot \left(\tfrac{2}{5}\right)^n$ an integer?

$\textbf{(A) }3 \qquad \textbf{(B) }4 \qquad \textbf{(C) }6 \qquad \textbf{(D) }8 \qquad \textbf{(E) }9 \qquad$

Solution

Problem 8
Joe has a collection of $23$ coins, consisting of $5$ -cent coins, $10$ -cent coins, and $25$ -cent coins. He has $3$ more $10$ -cent coins than $5$ -cent coins, and the total value of his collection is $320$ cents. How many more $25$ -cent coins does Joe have than $5$ -cent coins?

$\textbf{(A) } 0 \qquad \textbf{(B) } 1 \qquad \textbf{(C) } 2 \qquad \textbf{(D) } 3 \qquad \textbf{(E) } 4$

Solution

Problem 9
All of the triangles in the diagram below are similar to isosceles triangle $ABC$ , in which $AB=AC$ . Each of the $7$ smallest triangles has area $1,$ and $\triangle ABC$ has area $40$ . What is the area of trapezoid $DBCE$ ?
[asy] unitsize(5); dot((0,0)); dot((60,0)); dot((50,10)); dot((10,10)); dot((30,30)); draw((0,0)--(60,0)--(50,10)--(30,30)--(10,10)--(0,0)); draw((10,10)--(50,10)); label("$B$",(0,0),SW); label("$C$",(60,0),SE); label("$E$",(50,10),E); label("$D$",(10,10),W); label("$A$",(30,30),N); draw((10,10)--(15,15)--(20,10)--(25,15)--(30,10)--(35,15)--(40,10)--(45,15)--(50,10)); draw((15,15)--(45,15)); [/asy]

$\textbf{(A) } 16 \qquad \textbf{(B) } 18 \qquad \textbf{(C) } 20 \qquad \textbf{(D) } 22 \qquad \textbf{(E) } 24$

Solution

Problem 10
Suppose that real number $x$ satisfies \[\sqrt{49-x^2}-\sqrt{25-x^2}=3.\] What is the value of $\sqrt{49-x^2}+\sqrt{25-x^2}$ ?

$\textbf{(A) }8 \qquad \textbf{(B) }\sqrt{33}+8\qquad \textbf{(C) }9 \qquad \textbf{(D) }2\sqrt{10}+4 \qquad \textbf{(E) }12 \qquad$

Solution

Problem 11
When $7$ fair standard $6$ -sided dice are thrown, the probability that the sum of the numbers on the top faces is $10$ can be written as \[\frac{n}{6^{7}},\] where $n$ is a positive integer. What is $n$ ?

$\textbf{(A) }42\qquad \textbf{(B) }49\qquad \textbf{(C) }56\qquad \textbf{(D) }63\qquad \textbf{(E) }84\qquad$

Solution

Problem 12
How many ordered pairs of real numbers $(x,y)$ satisfy the following system of equations? \begin{align*} x+3y&=3 \\ \big||x|-|y|\big|&=1 \end{align*} $\textbf{(A) } 1 \qquad \textbf{(B) } 2 \qquad \textbf{(C) } 3 \qquad \textbf{(D) } 4 \qquad \textbf{(E) } 8$

Solution

Problem 13
[asy] draw((0,0)--(4,0)--(4,3)--(0,0)); label("$A$", (0,0), SW); label("$B$", (4,3), NE); label("$C$", (4,0), SE); label("$4$", (2,0), S); label("$3$", (4,1.5), E); label("$5$", (2,1.5), NW); fill(origin--(0,0)--(4,3)--(4,0)--cycle, gray); [/asy]

Solution

Problem 14
What is the greatest integer less than or equal to \[\frac{3^{100}+2^{100}}{3^{96}+2^{96}}?\]

$\textbf{(A) }80\qquad \textbf{(B) }81 \qquad \textbf{(C) }96 \qquad \textbf{(D) }97 \qquad \textbf{(E) }625\qquad$

Solution

Problem 15
Two circles of radius $5$ are externally tangent to each other and are internally tangent to a circle of radius $13$ at points $A$ and $B$ , as shown in the diagram. The distance $AB$ can be written in the form $\tfrac{m}{n}$ , where $m$ and $n$ are relatively prime positive integers. What is $m+n$ ?
[asy] draw(circle((0,0),13)); draw(circle((5,-6.2),5)); draw(circle((-5,-6.2),5)); label("$B$", (9.5,-9.5), S); label("$A$", (-9.5,-9.5), S); [/asy]

$\textbf{(A) } 21 \qquad \textbf{(B) } 29 \qquad \textbf{(C) } 58 \qquad \textbf{(D) } 69 \qquad \textbf{(E) } 93$

Solution

Problem 16
Right triangle $ABC$ has leg lengths $AB=20$ and $BC=21$ . Including $\overline{AB}$ and $\overline{BC}$ , how many line segments with integer length can be drawn from vertex $B$ to a point on hypotenuse $\overline{AC}$ ?

$\textbf{(A) }5 \qquad \textbf{(B) }8 \qquad \textbf{(C) }12 \qquad \textbf{(D) }13 \qquad \textbf{(E) }15 \qquad$

Solution

Problem 17
Let $S$ be a set of $6$ integers taken from $\{1,2,\dots,12\}$ with the property that if $a$ and $b$ are elements of $S$ with $a<b$ , then $b$ is not a multiple of $a$ . What is the least possible value of an element in $S$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 2\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 3\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 4\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 5\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 7$

Solution

Problem 18
How many nonnegative integers can be written in the form \[a_7\cdot3^7+a_6\cdot3^6+a_5\cdot3^5+a_4\cdot3^4+a_3\cdot3^3+a_2\cdot3^2+a_1\cdot3^1+a_0\cdot3^0,\] where $a_i\in \{-1,0,1\}$ for $0\le i \le 7$ ?

$\textbf{(A) } 512 \qquad \textbf{(B) } 729 \qquad \textbf{(C) } 1094 \qquad \textbf{(D) } 3281 \qquad \textbf{(E) } 59,048$

Solution

Problem 19
A number $m$ is randomly selected from the set $\{11,13,15,17,19\}$ , and a number $n$ is randomly selected from $\{1999,2000,2001,\ldots,2018\}$ . What is the probability that $m^n$ has a units digit of $1$ ?

$\textbf{(A) } \frac{1}{5} \qquad \textbf{(B) } \frac{1}{4} \qquad \textbf{(C) } \frac{3}{10} \qquad \textbf{(D) } \frac{7}{20} \qquad \textbf{(E) } \frac{2}{5}$

Solution

Problem 20
A scanning code consists of a $7 \times 7$ grid of squares, with some of its squares colored black and the rest colored white. There must be at least one square of each color in this grid of $49$ squares. A scanning code is called $\textit{symmetric}$ if its look does not change when the entire square is rotated by a multiple of $90 ^{\circ}$ counterclockwise around its center, nor when it is reflected across a line joining opposite corners or a line joining midpoints of opposite sides. What is the total number of possible symmetric scanning codes?

$\textbf{(A)} \text{ 510} \qquad \textbf{(B)} \text{ 1022} \qquad \textbf{(C)} \text{ 8190} \qquad \textbf{(D)} \text{ 8192} \qquad \textbf{(E)} \text{ 65,534}$

Solution

Problem 21
Which of the following describes the set of values of $a$ for which the curves $x^2+y^2=a^2$ and $y=x^2-a$ in the real $xy$ -plane intersect at exactly $3$ points?

$\textbf{(A) }a=\frac14 \qquad \textbf{(B) }\frac14 < a < \frac12 \qquad \textbf{(C) }a>\frac14 \qquad \textbf{(D) }a=\frac12 \qquad \textbf{(E) }a>\frac12 \qquad$

Solution

Problem 22
Let $a, b, c,$ and $d$ be positive integers such that $\gcd(a, b)=24$ , $\gcd(b, c)=36$ , $\gcd(c, d)=54$ , and $70<\gcd(d, a)<100$ . Which of the following must be a divisor of $a$ ?

$\textbf{(A)} \text{ 5} \qquad \textbf{(B)} \text{ 7} \qquad \textbf{(C)} \text{ 11} \qquad \textbf{(D)} \text{ 13} \qquad \textbf{(E)} \text{ 17}$

Solution

Problem 23
Farmer Pythagoras has a field in the shape of a right triangle. The right triangle's legs have lengths $3$ and $4$ units. In the corner where those sides meet at a right angle, he leaves a small unplanted square $S$ so that from the air it looks like the right angle symbol. The rest of the field is planted. The shortest distance from $S$ to the hypotenuse is $2$ units. What fraction of the field is planted?
[asy] /* Edited by MRENTHUSIASM */ size(160); pair A, B, C, D, F; A = origin; B = (4,0); C = (0,3); D = (2/7,2/7); F = foot(D,B,C); fill(A--(2/7,0)--D--(0,2/7)--cycle, lightgray); draw(A--B--C--cycle); draw((2/7,0)--D--(0,2/7)); label("$4$", midpoint(A--B), N); label("$3$", midpoint(A--C), E); label("$2$", midpoint(D--F), SE); label("$S$", midpoint(A--D)); draw(D--F, dashed); [/asy]

$\textbf{(A) } \frac{25}{27} \qquad \textbf{(B) } \frac{26}{27} \qquad \textbf{(C) } \frac{73}{75} \qquad \textbf{(D) } \frac{145}{147} \qquad \textbf{(E) } \frac{74}{75}$

Solution

Problem 24
Triangle $ABC$ with $AB=50$ and $AC=10$ has area $120$ . Let $D$ be the midpoint of $\overline{AB}$ , and let $E$ be the midpoint of $\overline{AC}$ . The angle bisector of $\angle BAC$ intersects $\overline{DE}$ and $\overline{BC}$ at $F$ and $G$ , respectively. What is the area of quadrilateral $FDBG$ ?

$\textbf{(A) }60 \qquad \textbf{(B) }65 \qquad \textbf{(C) }70 \qquad \textbf{(D) }75 \qquad \textbf{(E) }80 \qquad$

Solution

Problem 25
For a positive integer $n$ and nonzero digits $a$ , $b$ , and $c$ , let $A_n$ be the $n$ -digit integer each of whose digits is equal to $a$ ; let $B_n$ be the $n$ -digit integer each of whose digits is equal to $b$ , and let $C_n$ be the $2n$ -digit (not $n$ -digit) integer each of whose digits is equal to $c$ . What is the greatest possible value of $a + b + c$ for which there are at least two values of $n$ such that $C_n - B_n = A_n^2$ ?

$\textbf{(A) } 12 \qquad \textbf{(B) } 14 \qquad \textbf{(C) } 16 \qquad \textbf{(D) } 18 \qquad \textbf{(E) } 20$

Solution
