Problem 1
Define $x\diamond y$ to be $|x-y|$ for all real numbers $x$ and $y.$ What is the value of \[(1\diamond(2\diamond3))-((1\diamond2)\diamond3)?\]

$\textbf{(A)}\ {-}2 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ {-}1 \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 0 \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 1 \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 2$

Solution

Problem 2
In rhombus $ABCD$ , point $P$ lies on segment $\overline{AD}$ so that $\overline{BP}$ $\perp$ $\overline{AD}$ , $AP = 3$ , and $PD = 2$ . What is the area of $ABCD$ ? (Note: The figure is not drawn to scale.)
[asy] import olympiad; size(180); real r = 3, s = 5, t = sqrt(r*r+s*s); defaultpen(linewidth(0.6) + fontsize(10)); pair A = (0,0), B = (r,s), C = (r+t,s), D = (t,0), P = (r,0); draw(A--B--C--D--A^^B--P^^rightanglemark(B,P,D)); label("$A$",A,SW); label("$B$", B, NW); label("$C$",C,NE); label("$D$",D,SE); label("$P$",P,S); [/asy]

$\textbf{(A) }3\sqrt 5 \qquad \textbf{(B) }10 \qquad \textbf{(C) }6\sqrt 5 \qquad \textbf{(D) }20\qquad \textbf{(E) }25$

Solution

Problem 3
How many three-digit positive integers have an odd number of even digits?

$\textbf{(A) }150\qquad\textbf{(B) }250\qquad\textbf{(C) }350\qquad\textbf{(D) }450\qquad\textbf{(E) }550$

Solution

Problem 4
A donkey suffers an attack of hiccups and the first hiccup happens at $4:00$ one afternoon. Suppose that the donkey hiccups regularly every $5$ seconds. At what time does the donkey’s $700$ th hiccup occur?

$\textbf{(A) }15 \text{ seconds after } 4:58$
$\textbf{(B) }20 \text{ seconds after } 4:58$
$\textbf{(C) }25 \text{ seconds after } 4:58$
$\textbf{(D) }30 \text{ seconds after } 4:58$
$\textbf{(E) }35 \text{ seconds after } 4:58$

Solution

Problem 5
What is the value of \[\frac{\left(1+\frac13\right)\left(1+\frac15\right)\left(1+\frac17\right)}{\sqrt{\left(1-\frac{1}{3^2}\right)\left(1-\frac{1}{5^2}\right)\left(1-\frac{1}{7^2}\right)}}?\] $\textbf{(A)}\ \sqrt3 \qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 2 \qquad\textbf{(C)}\ \sqrt{15} \qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 4 \qquad\textbf{(E)}\ \sqrt{105}$

Solution

Problem 6
How many of the first ten numbers of the sequence $121, 11211, 1112111, \ldots$ are prime numbers?

$\textbf{(A) } 0 \qquad \textbf{(B) }1 \qquad \textbf{(C) }2 \qquad \textbf{(D) }3 \qquad \textbf{(E) }4$

Solution

Problem 7
For how many values of the constant $k$ will the polynomial $x^{2}+kx+36$ have two distinct integer roots?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 6 \qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 8 \qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 9 \qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 14 \qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 16$

Solution

Problem 8
Consider the following $100$ sets of $10$ elements each: \begin{align*} &\{1,2,3,\ldots,10\}, \\ &\{11,12,13,\ldots,20\},\\ &\{21,22,23,\ldots,30\},\\ &\vdots\\ &\{991,992,993,\ldots,1000\}. \end{align*} How many of these sets contain exactly two multiples of $7$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 40\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 42\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 43\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 49\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 50$

Solution

Problem 9
The sum \[\frac{1}{2!}+\frac{2}{3!}+\frac{3}{4!}+\cdots+\frac{2021}{2022!}\] can be expressed as $a-\frac{1}{b!}$ , where $a$ and $b$ are positive integers. What is $a+b$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 2020 \qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 2021 \qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 2022 \qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 2023 \qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 2024$

Solution

Problem 10
Camila writes down five positive integers. The unique mode of these integers is $2$ greater than their median, and the median is $2$ greater than their arithmetic mean. What is the least possible value for the mode?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 5 \qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 7 \qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 9 \qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 11 \qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 13$

Solution

Problem 11
All the high schools in a large school district are involved in a fundraiser selling T-shirts. Which of the choices below is logically equivalent to the statement "No school bigger than Euclid HS sold more T-shirts than Euclid HS"?

$\textbf{(A) }$ All schools smaller than Euclid HS sold fewer T-shirts than Euclid HS.
$\textbf{(B) }$ No school that sold more T-shirts than Euclid HS is bigger than Euclid HS.
$\textbf{(C) }$ All schools bigger than Euclid HS sold fewer T-shirts than Euclid HS.
$\textbf{(D) }$ All schools that sold fewer T-shirts than Euclid HS are smaller than Euclid HS.
$\textbf{(E) }$ All schools smaller than Euclid HS sold more T-shirts than Euclid HS.

Solution

Problem 12
A pair of fair $6$ -sided dice is rolled $n$ times. What is the least value of $n$ such that the probability that the sum of the numbers face up on a roll equals $7$ at least once is greater than $\frac{1}{2}$ ?

$\textbf{(A) } 2 \qquad \textbf{(B) } 3 \qquad \textbf{(C) } 4 \qquad \textbf{(D) } 5 \qquad \textbf{(E) } 6$

Solution

Problem 13
The positive difference between a pair of primes is equal to $2$ , and the positive difference between the cubes of the two primes is $31106$ . What is the sum of the digits of the least prime that is greater than those two primes?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 8 \qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 10 \qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 11 \qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 13 \qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 16$

Solution

Problem 14
Suppose that $S$ is a subset of $\left\{ 1, 2, 3, \ldots , 25 \right\}$ such that the sum of any two (not necessarily distinct) elements of $S$ is never an element of $S.$ What is the maximum number of elements $S$ may contain?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 12 \qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 13 \qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 14 \qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 15 \qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 16$

Solution

Problem 15
Let $S_n$ be the sum of the first $n$ terms of an arithmetic sequence that has a common difference of $2$ . The quotient $\frac{S_{3n}}{S_n}$ does not depend on $n$ . What is $S_{20}$ ?

$\textbf{(A) } 340 \qquad \textbf{(B) } 360 \qquad \textbf{(C) } 380 \qquad \textbf{(D) } 400 \qquad \textbf{(E) } 420$

Solution

Problem 16
The diagram below shows a rectangle with side lengths $4$ and $8$ and a square with side length $5$ . Three vertices of the square lie on three different sides of the rectangle, as shown. What is the area of the region inside both the square and the rectangle?
[asy] size(5cm); filldraw((4,0)--(8,3)--(8-3/4,4)--(1,4)--cycle,mediumgray); draw((0,0)--(8,0)--(8,4)--(0,4)--cycle,linewidth(1.1)); draw((1,0)--(1,4)--(4,0)--(8,3)--(5,7)--(1,4),linewidth(1.1)); label("$4$", (8,2), E); label("$8$", (4,0), S); label("$5$", (3,11/2), NW); draw((1,.35)--(1.35,.35)--(1.35,0),linewidth(1.1)); [/asy]

$\textbf{(A) }15\dfrac{1}{8} \qquad \textbf{(B) }15\dfrac{3}{8} \qquad \textbf{(C) }15\dfrac{1}{2} \qquad \textbf{(D) }15\dfrac{5}{8} \qquad \textbf{(E) }15\dfrac{7}{8}$

Solution

Problem 17
One of the following numbers is not divisible by any prime number less than $10.$ Which is it?

$\textbf{(A) } 2^{606}-1 \qquad\textbf{(B) } 2^{606}+1 \qquad\textbf{(C) } 2^{607}-1 \qquad\textbf{(D) } 2^{607}+1\qquad\textbf{(E) } 2^{607}+3^{607}$

Solution

Problem 18
Consider systems of three linear equations with unknowns $x$ , $y$ , and $z$ , \begin{align*} a_1 x + b_1 y + c_1 z & = 0 \\ a_2 x + b_2 y + c_2 z & = 0 \\ a_3 x + b_3 y + c_3 z & = 0 \end{align*} where each of the coefficients is either $0$ or $1$ and the system has a solution other than $x=y=z=0$ . For example, one such system is \[\{ 1x + 1y + 0z = 0, 0x + 1y + 1z = 0, 0x + 0y + 0z = 0 \}\] with a nonzero solution of $\{x,y,z\} = \{1, -1, 1\}$ . How many such systems of equations are there? (The equations in a system need not be distinct, and two systems containing the same equations in a different order are considered different.)

$\textbf{(A)}\ 302 \qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 338 \qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 340 \qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 343 \qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 344$

Solution

Problem 19
Each square in a $5 \times 5$ grid is either filled or empty, and has up to eight adjacent neighboring squares, where neighboring squares share either a side or a corner. The grid is transformed by the following rules:
[asy] import geometry; unitsize(0.6cm); void ds(pair x) { filldraw(x -- (1,0) + x -- (1,1) + x -- (0,1)+x -- cycle,mediumgray,invisible); } ds((1,1)); ds((2,1)); ds((3,1)); ds((1,3)); for (int i = 0; i <= 5; ++i) { draw((0,i)--(5,i)); draw((i,0)--(i,5)); } label("Initial", (2.5,-1)); draw((6,2.5)--(8,2.5),Arrow); ds((10,2)); ds((11,1)); ds((11,0)); for (int i = 0; i <= 5; ++i) { draw((9,i)--(14,i)); draw((i+9,0)--(i+9,5)); } label("Transformed", (11.5,-1)); [/asy]

Solution

Problem 20
Let $ABCD$ be a rhombus with $\angle{ADC} = 46^{\circ}$ . Let $E$ be the midpoint of $\overline{CD}$ , and let $F$ be the point on $\overline{BE}$ such that $\overline{AF}$ is perpendicular to $\overline{BE}$ . What is the degree measure of $\angle{BFC}$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 110 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 111 \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 112 \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 113 \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 114$

Solution

Problem 21
Let $P(x)$ be a polynomial with rational coefficients such that when $P(x)$ is divided by the polynomial $x^2 + x + 1$ , the remainder is $x + 2$ , and when $P(x)$ is divided by the polynomial $x^2 + 1$ , the remainder is $2x + 1$ . There is a unique polynomial of least degree with these two properties. What is the sum of the squares of the coefficients of that polynomial?

$\textbf{(A) } 10 \qquad \textbf{(B) } 13 \qquad \textbf{(C) } 19 \qquad \textbf{(D) } 20 \qquad \textbf{(E) } 23$

Solution

Problem 22
Let $S$ be the set of circles in the coordinate plane that are tangent to each of the three circles with equations $x^{2}+y^{2}=4$ , $x^{2}+y^{2}=64$ , and $(x-5)^{2}+y^{2}=3$ . What is the sum of the areas of all circles in $S$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}~48\pi\qquad\textbf{(B)}~68\pi\qquad\textbf{(C)}~96\pi\qquad\textbf{(D)}~102\pi\qquad\textbf{(E)}~136\pi\qquad$

Solution

Problem 23
Ant Amelia starts on the number line at $0$ and crawls in the following manner. For $n=1,2,3,$ Amelia chooses a time duration $t_n$ and an increment $x_n$ independently and uniformly at random from the interval $(0,1).$ During the $n$ th step of the process, Amelia moves $x_n$ units in the positive direction, using up $t_n$ minutes. If the total elapsed time has exceeded $1$ minute during the $n$ th step, she stops at the end of that step; otherwise, she continues with the next step, taking at most $3$ steps in all. What is the probability that Amelia’s position when she stops will be greater than $1$ ?

$\textbf{(A) }\frac{1}{3} \qquad \textbf{(B) }\frac{1}{2} \qquad \textbf{(C) }\frac{2}{3} \qquad \textbf{(D) }\frac{3}{4} \qquad \textbf{(E) }\frac{5}{6}$

Solution

Problem 24
Consider functions $f$ that satisfy \[|f(x)-f(y)|\leq \frac{1}{2}|x-y|\] for all real numbers $x$ and $y$ . Of all such functions that also satisfy the equation $f(300) = f(900)$ , what is the greatest possible value of \[f(f(800))-f(f(400))?\] $\textbf{(A)}\ 25 \qquad\textbf{(B)}\ 50 \qquad\textbf{(C)}\ 100 \qquad\textbf{(D)}\ 150 \qquad\textbf{(E)}\ 200$

Solution

Problem 25
Let $x_0,x_1,x_2,\dotsc$ be a sequence of numbers, where each $x_k$ is either $0$ or $1$ . For each positive integer $n$ , define \[S_n = \sum_{k=0}^{n-1} x_k 2^k\] Suppose $7S_n \equiv 1 \pmod{2^n}$ for all $n \geq 1$ . What is the value of the sum \[x_{2019} + 2x_{2020} + 4x_{2021} + 8x_{2022}?\] $\textbf{(A) } 6 \qquad \textbf{(B) } 7 \qquad \textbf{(C) }12\qquad \textbf{(D) } 14\qquad \textbf{(E) }15$

Solution
