Problem 1
What is the value of \[3+\frac{1}{3+\frac{1}{3+\frac13}}?\] $\textbf{(A)}\ \frac{31}{10}\qquad\textbf{(B)}\ \frac{49}{15}\qquad\textbf{(C)}\ \frac{33}{10}\qquad\textbf{(D)}\ \frac{109}{33}\qquad\textbf{(E)}\ \frac{15}{4}$

Solution

Problem 2
Mike cycled $15$ laps in $57$ minutes. Assume he cycled at a constant speed throughout. Approximately how many laps did he complete in the first $27$ minutes?

$\textbf{(A) } 5 \qquad\textbf{(B) } 7 \qquad\textbf{(C) } 9 \qquad\textbf{(D) } 11 \qquad\textbf{(E) } 13$

Solution

Problem 3
The sum of three numbers is $96.$ The first number is $6$ times the third number, and the third number is $40$ less than the second number. What is the absolute value of the difference between the first and second numbers?

$\textbf{(A) } 1 \qquad \textbf{(B) } 2 \qquad \textbf{(C) } 3 \qquad \textbf{(D) } 4 \qquad \textbf{(E) } 5$

Solution

Problem 4
In some countries, automobile fuel efficiency is measured in liters per $100$ kilometers while other countries use miles per gallon. Suppose that 1 kilometer equals $m$ miles, and $1$ gallon equals $l$ liters. Which of the following gives the fuel efficiency in liters per $100$ kilometers for a car that gets $x$ miles per gallon?

$\textbf{(A) } \frac{x}{100lm} \qquad \textbf{(B) } \frac{xlm}{100} \qquad \textbf{(C) } \frac{lm}{100x} \qquad \textbf{(D) } \frac{100}{xlm} \qquad \textbf{(E) } \frac{100lm}{x}$

Solution

Problem 5
Square $ABCD$ has side length $1$ . Points $P$ , $Q$ , $R$ , and $S$ each lie on a side of $ABCD$ such that $APQCRS$ is an equilateral convex hexagon with side length $s$ . What is $s$ ?

$\textbf{(A) } \frac{\sqrt{2}}{3} \qquad \textbf{(B) } \frac{1}{2} \qquad \textbf{(C) } 2 - \sqrt{2} \qquad \textbf{(D) } 1 - \frac{\sqrt{2}}{4} \qquad \textbf{(E) } \frac{2}{3}$

Solution

Problem 6
Which expression is equal to \[\left|a-2-\sqrt{(a-1)^2}\right|\] for $a<0?$

$\textbf{(A) } 3-2a \qquad \textbf{(B) } 1-a \qquad \textbf{(C) } 1 \qquad \textbf{(D) } a+1 \qquad \textbf{(E) } 3$

Solution

Problem 7
The least common multiple of a positive integer $n$ and $18$ is $180$ , and the greatest common divisor of $n$ and $45$ is $15$ . What is the sum of the digits of $n$ ?

$\textbf{(A) } 3 \qquad \textbf{(B) } 6 \qquad \textbf{(C) } 8 \qquad \textbf{(D) } 9 \qquad \textbf{(E) } 12$

Solution

Problem 8
A data set consists of $6$ (not distinct) positive integers: $1$ , $7$ , $5$ , $2$ , $5$ , and $X$ . The average (arithmetic mean) of the $6$ numbers equals a value in the data set. What is the sum of all possible values of $X$ ?

$\textbf{(A) } 10 \qquad \textbf{(B) } 26 \qquad \textbf{(C) } 32 \qquad \textbf{(D) } 36 \qquad \textbf{(E) } 40$

Solution

Problem 9
A rectangle is partitioned into $5$ regions as shown. Each region is to be painted a solid color - red, orange, yellow, blue, or green - so that regions that touch are painted different colors, and colors can be used more than once. How many different colorings are possible?
[asy] size(5.5cm); draw((0,0)--(0,2)--(2,2)--(2,0)--cycle); draw((2,0)--(8,0)--(8,2)--(2,2)--cycle); draw((8,0)--(12,0)--(12,2)--(8,2)--cycle); draw((0,2)--(6,2)--(6,4)--(0,4)--cycle); draw((6,2)--(12,2)--(12,4)--(6,4)--cycle); [/asy]

$\textbf{(A) }120\qquad\textbf{(B) }270\qquad\textbf{(C) }360\qquad\textbf{(D) }540\qquad\textbf{(E) }720$

Solution

Problem 10
[asy] // Diagram by MRENTHUSIASM, edited by Djmathman size(200); defaultpen(linewidth(0.6)); draw((489.5,-213) -- (225.5,-213) -- (225.5,-185) -- (199.5,-185) -- (198.5,-62) -- (457.5,-62) -- (457.5,-93) -- (489.5,-93) -- cycle); draw((206.29,-70.89) -- (480.21,-207.11), linetype ("6 6"),Arrows(size=4,arrowhead=HookHead)); draw((237.85,-182.24) -- (448.65,-95.76),linetype ("6 6"),Arrows(size=4,arrowhead=HookHead)); label("$1$",(450,-80)); label("$1$",(475,-106)); label("$8$",(300,-103)); label("$4\sqrt 2$",(300,-173)); [/asy]

Solution

Problem 11
Ted mistakenly wrote $2^m\cdot\sqrt{\frac{1}{4096}}$ as $2\cdot\sqrt[m]{\frac{1}{4096}}.$ What is the sum of all real numbers $m$ for which these two expressions have the same value?

$\textbf{(A) } 5 \qquad \textbf{(B) } 6 \qquad \textbf{(C) } 7 \qquad \textbf{(D) } 8 \qquad \textbf{(E) } 9$

Solution

Problem 12
On Halloween, $31$ children walked into the principal's office asking for candy. They can be classified into three types: Some always lie; some always tell the truth; and some alternately lie and tell the truth. The alternaters arbitrarily choose their first response, either a lie or the truth, but each subsequent statement has the opposite truth value from its predecessor. The principal asked everyone the same three questions in this order. "Are you a truth-teller?" The principal gave a piece of candy to each of the $22$ children who answered yes. "Are you an alternater?" The principal gave a piece of candy to each of the $15$ children who answered yes. "Are you a liar?" The principal gave a piece of candy to each of the $9$ children who answered yes. How many pieces of candy in all did the principal give to the children who always tell the truth?

$\textbf{(A) } 7 \qquad \textbf{(B) } 12 \qquad \textbf{(C) } 21 \qquad \textbf{(D) } 27 \qquad \textbf{(E) } 31$

Solution

Problem 13
Let $\triangle ABC$ be a scalene triangle. Point $P$ lies on $\overline{BC}$ so that $\overline{AP}$ bisects $\angle BAC.$ The line through $B$ perpendicular to $\overline{AP}$ intersects the line through $A$ parallel to $\overline{BC}$ at point $D.$ Suppose $BP=2$ and $PC=3.$ What is $AD?$

$\textbf{(A) } 8 \qquad \textbf{(B) } 9 \qquad \textbf{(C) } 10 \qquad \textbf{(D) } 11 \qquad \textbf{(E) } 12$

Solution

Problem 14
How many ways are there to split the integers $1$ through $14$ into $7$ pairs such that in each pair, the greater number is at least $2$ times the lesser number?

$\textbf{(A) } 108 \qquad \textbf{(B) } 120 \qquad \textbf{(C) } 126 \qquad \textbf{(D) } 132 \qquad \textbf{(E) } 144$

Solution

Problem 15
Quadrilateral $ABCD$ with side lengths $AB=7, BC=24, CD=20, DA=15$ is inscribed in a circle. The area interior to the circle but exterior to the quadrilateral can be written in the form $\frac{a\pi-b}{c},$ where $a,b,$ and $c$ are positive integers such that $a$ and $c$ have no common prime factor. What is $a+b+c?$

$\textbf{(A) } 260 \qquad \textbf{(B) } 855 \qquad \textbf{(C) } 1235 \qquad \textbf{(D) } 1565 \qquad \textbf{(E) } 1997$

Solution

Problem 16
The roots of the polynomial $10x^3 - 39x^2 + 29x - 6$ are the height, length, and width of a rectangular box (right rectangular prism). A new rectangular box is formed by lengthening each edge of the original box by $2$ units. What is the volume of the new box?

$\textbf{(A) } \frac{24}{5} \qquad \textbf{(B) } \frac{42}{5} \qquad \textbf{(C) } \frac{81}{5} \qquad \textbf{(D) } 30 \qquad \textbf{(E) } 48$

Solution

Problem 17
How many three-digit positive integers $\underline{a} \ \underline{b} \ \underline{c}$ are there whose nonzero digits $a,b,$ and $c$ satisfy \[0.\overline{\underline{a}~\underline{b}~\underline{c}} = \frac{1}{3} (0.\overline{a} + 0.\overline{b} + 0.\overline{c})?\] (The bar indicates repetition, thus $0.\overline{\underline{a}~\underline{b}~\underline{c}}$ is the infinite repeating decimal $0.\underline{a}~\underline{b}~\underline{c}~\underline{a}~\underline{b}~\underline{c}~\cdots$ )

$\textbf{(A) } 9 \qquad \textbf{(B) } 10 \qquad \textbf{(C) } 11 \qquad \textbf{(D) } 13 \qquad \textbf{(E) } 14$

Solution

Problem 18
Let $T_k$ be the transformation of the coordinate plane that first rotates the plane $k$ degrees counterclockwise around the origin and then reflects the plane across the $y$ -axis. What is the least positive integer $n$ such that performing the sequence of transformations $T_1, T_2, T_3,...,T_n$ returns the point $(1, 0)$ back to itself?

$\textbf{(A) } 359 \qquad \textbf{(B) } 360 \qquad \textbf{(C) } 719 \qquad \textbf{(D) } 720 \qquad \textbf{(E) } 721$

Solution

Problem 19
Define $L_n$ as the least common multiple of all the integers from $1$ to $n$ inclusive. There is a unique integer $h$ such that \[\frac{1}{1}+\frac{1}{2}+\frac{1}{3}+\cdots+\frac{1}{17}=\frac{h}{L_{17}}\] What is the remainder when $h$ is divided by $17$ ?

$\textbf{(A) } 1 \qquad \textbf{(B) } 3 \qquad \textbf{(C) } 5 \qquad \textbf{(D) } 7 \qquad \textbf{(E) } 9$

Solution

Problem 20
A four-term sequence is formed by adding each term of a four-term arithmetic sequence of positive integers to the corresponding term of a four-term geometric sequence of positive integers. The first three terms of the resulting four-term sequence are $57$ , $60$ , and $91$ . What is the fourth term of this sequence?

$\textbf{(A) } 190 \qquad \textbf{(B) } 194 \qquad \textbf{(C) } 198 \qquad \textbf{(D) } 202 \qquad \textbf{(E) } 206$

Solution

Problem 21
[asy] import three; size(225); currentprojection= orthographic(camera=(-5.52541796301147,-2.61548797564715,1.6545450372312), up=(0.00247902062334861,0.000877141782387748,0.00966536329192992), target=(0,0,0), zoom=0.570588560870951); currentpen = black+1.5bp; triple A = O; triple M = (X+Y)/2; triple B = (-1/2,-1/2,1/sqrt(2)); triple C = (-1,0,sqrt(2)); triple D = (0,-1,sqrt(2)); transform3 rho = rotate(90,M,M+Z); //arrays of vertices for the lower level (the square), the middle level, //and the interleaves vertices of the upper level (the octagon) triple[] lVs = {A}; triple[] mVs = {B}; triple[] uVsl = {C}; triple[] uVsr = {D}; for(int i = 0; i < 3; ++i){ lVs.push(rho*lVs[i]); mVs.push(rho*mVs[i]); uVsl.push(rho*uVsl[i]); uVsr.push(rho*uVsr[i]); } lVs.cyclic = true; uVsl.cyclic = true; for(int i : new int[] {0,1,2,3}){ draw(uVsl[i]--uVsr[i]); draw(uVsr[i]--uVsl[i+1]); } draw(lVs[0]--lVs[1]^^lVs[0]--lVs[3]); for(int i : new int[] {0,1,3}){ draw(lVs[0]--lVs[i]); draw(lVs[i]--mVs[i]); draw(mVs[i]--uVsl[i]); } for(int i : new int[] {0,3}){ draw(mVs[i]--uVsr[i]); } for(int i : new int[] {1,3}) draw(lVs[2]--lVs[i],dashed); draw(lVs[2]--mVs[2],dashed); draw(mVs[2]--uVsl[2]^^mVs[2]--uVsr[2],dashed); draw(mVs[1]--uVsr[1],dashed); //Comment two lines below to remove red edges //draw(lVs[1]--lVs[3],red+2bp); //draw(uVsl[0]--uVsr[0],red+2bp); [/asy]

Solution

Problem 22
Suppose that $13$ cards numbered $1, 2, 3, \ldots, 13$ are arranged in a row. The task is to pick them up in numerically increasing order, working repeatedly from left to right. In the example below, cards $1, 2, 3$ are picked up on the first pass, $4$ and $5$ on the second pass, $6$ on the third pass, $7, 8, 9, 10$ on the fourth pass, and $11, 12, 13$ on the fifth pass. For how many of the $13!$ possible orderings of the cards will the $13$ cards be picked up in exactly two passes?
[asy] size(11cm); draw((0,0)--(2,0)--(2,3)--(0,3)--cycle); label("7", (1,1.5)); draw((3,0)--(5,0)--(5,3)--(3,3)--cycle); label("11", (4,1.5)); draw((6,0)--(8,0)--(8,3)--(6,3)--cycle); label("8", (7,1.5)); draw((9,0)--(11,0)--(11,3)--(9,3)--cycle); label("6", (10,1.5)); draw((12,0)--(14,0)--(14,3)--(12,3)--cycle); label("4", (13,1.5)); draw((15,0)--(17,0)--(17,3)--(15,3)--cycle); label("5", (16,1.5)); draw((18,0)--(20,0)--(20,3)--(18,3)--cycle); label("9", (19,1.5)); draw((21,0)--(23,0)--(23,3)--(21,3)--cycle); label("12", (22,1.5)); draw((24,0)--(26,0)--(26,3)--(24,3)--cycle); label("1", (25,1.5)); draw((27,0)--(29,0)--(29,3)--(27,3)--cycle); label("13", (28,1.5)); draw((30,0)--(32,0)--(32,3)--(30,3)--cycle); label("10", (31,1.5)); draw((33,0)--(35,0)--(35,3)--(33,3)--cycle); label("2", (34,1.5)); draw((36,0)--(38,0)--(38,3)--(36,3)--cycle); label("3", (37,1.5)); [/asy]

Solution

Problem 23
Isosceles trapezoid $ABCD$ has parallel sides $\overline{AD}$ and $\overline{BC},$ with $BC < AD$ and $AB = CD.$ There is a point $P$ in the plane such that $PA=1, PB=2, PC=3,$ and $PD=4.$ What is $\tfrac{BC}{AD}?$

$\textbf{(A) }\frac{1}{4}\qquad\textbf{(B) }\frac{1}{3}\qquad\textbf{(C) }\frac{1}{2}\qquad\textbf{(D) }\frac{2}{3}\qquad\textbf{(E) }\frac{3}{4}$

Solution

Problem 24
How many strings of length $5$ formed from the digits $0$ , $1$ , $2$ , $3$ , $4$ are there such that for each $j \in \{1,2,3,4\}$ , at least $j$ of the digits are less than $j$ ? (For example, $02214$ satisfies this condition because it contains at least $1$ digit less than $1$ , at least $2$ digits less than $2$ , at least $3$ digits less than $3$ , and at least $4$ digits less than $4$ . The string $23404$ does not satisfy the condition because it does not contain at least $2$ digits less than $2$ .)

$\textbf{(A) }500\qquad\textbf{(B) }625\qquad\textbf{(C) }1089\qquad\textbf{(D) }1199\qquad\textbf{(E) }1296$

Solution

Problem 25
[asy] size(8cm); label(scale(.8)*"$y$", (0,60), N); label(scale(.8)*"$x$", (60,0), E); filldraw((0,0)--(55,0)--(55,55)--(0,55)--cycle, yellow+orange+white+white); label(scale(1.3)*"$R$", (55/2,55/2)); filldraw((0,0)--(0,28)--(-28,28)--(-28,0)--cycle, green+white+white); label(scale(1.3)*"$S$",(-14,14)); filldraw((-10,0)--(15,0)--(15,25)--(-10,25)--cycle, red+white+white); label(scale(1.3)*"$T$",(3.5,25/2)); draw((0,-10)--(0,60),EndArrow()); draw((-34,0)--(60,0),EndArrow()); [/asy]

$\textbf{(A) }336\qquad\textbf{(B) }337\qquad\textbf{(C) }338\qquad\textbf{(D) }339\qquad\textbf{(E) }340$

Solution
