Problem 1
Mrs. Jones is pouring orange juice into four identical glasses for her four sons. She fills the first three glasses completely but runs out of juice when the fourth glass is only $\frac{1}{3}$ full. What fraction of a glass must Mrs. Jones pour from each of the first three glasses into the fourth glass so that all four glasses will have the same amount of juice?

$\textbf{(A) }\frac{1}{12}\qquad\textbf{(B) }\frac{1}{4}\qquad\textbf{(C) }\frac{1}{6}\qquad\textbf{(D) }\frac{1}{8}\qquad\textbf{(E) }\frac{2}{9}$

Solution

Problem 2
Carlos went to a sports store to buy running shoes. Running shoes were on sale, with prices reduced by $20\%$ on every pair of shoes. Carlos also knew that he had to pay a $7.5\%$ sales tax on the discounted price. He had $43$ dollars. What is the original (before discount) price of the most expensive shoes he could afford to buy?

$\textbf{(A) }\$46\qquad\textbf{(B) }\$50\qquad\textbf{(C) }\$48\qquad\textbf{(D) }\$47\qquad\textbf{(E) }\$49$

Solution

Problem 3
A $3-4-5$ right triangle is inscribed in circle $A$ , and a $5-12-13$ right triangle is inscribed in circle $B$ . What is the ratio of the area of circle $A$ to the area of circle $B$ ?

$\textbf{(A) }\frac{9}{25}\qquad\textbf{(B) }\frac{1}{9}\qquad\textbf{(C) }\frac{1 }{5}\qquad\textbf{(D) }\frac{25}{169}\qquad\textbf{(E) }\frac{4}{25}$

Solution

Problem 4
Jackson's paintbrush makes a narrow strip with a width of $6.5$ millimeters. Jackson has enough paint to make a strip $25$ meters long. How many square centimeters of paper could Jackson cover with paint?

$\textbf{(A) }162{,}500\qquad\textbf{(B) }162.5\qquad\textbf{(C) }1{,}625\qquad\textbf{(D) }1{,}625{,}000\qquad\textbf{(E) }16{,}250$

Solution

Problem 5
Maddy and Lara see a list of numbers written on a blackboard. Maddy adds $3$ to each number in the list and finds that the sum of her new numbers is $45$ . Lara multiplies each number in the list by $3$ and finds that the sum of her new numbers is also $45$ . How many numbers are written on the blackboard?

$\textbf{(A) }10\qquad\textbf{(B) }5\qquad\textbf{(C) }6\qquad\textbf{(D) }8\qquad\textbf{(E) }9$

Solution

Problem 6
Let $L_1 = 1$ , $L_2 = 3$ , and $L_{n+2} = L_{n+1}+L_n$ for $n \geq 1$ . How many terms in the sequence $L_1, L_2, L_3, \cdots, L_{2023}$ are even?

$\textbf{(A) }673\qquad\textbf{(B) }1011\qquad\textbf{(C) }675\qquad\textbf{(D) }1010\qquad\textbf{(E) }674$

Solution

Problem 7
Square $ABCD$ is rotated $20^{\circ}$ clockwise about its center to obtain square $EFGH$ , as shown below. What is the degree measure of $\angle{EAB}$ ?
[asy] size(170); defaultpen(linewidth(0.6)); real r = 25; draw(dir(135)--dir(45)--dir(315)--dir(225)--cycle); draw(dir(135-r)--dir(45-r)--dir(315-r)--dir(225-r)--cycle); label("$A$",dir(135),NW); label("$B$",dir(45),NE); label("$C$",dir(315),SE); label("$D$",dir(225),SW); label("$E$",dir(135-r),N); label("$F$",dir(45-r),E); label("$G$",dir(315-r),S); label("$H$",dir(225-r),W); [/asy]

$\textbf{(A) }24^{\circ}\qquad\textbf{(B) }35^{\circ}\qquad\textbf{(C) }30^{\circ}\qquad\textbf{(D) }32^{\circ}\qquad\textbf{(E) }20^{\circ}$

Solution

Problem 8
What is the units digit of $2022^{2023} + 2023^{2022}$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 7 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 1 \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 9 \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 5 \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 3$

Solution

Problem 9
The numbers $16$ and $25$ are a pair of consecutive positive squares whose difference is $9$ . How many pairs of consecutive positive perfect squares have a difference of less than or equal to $2023$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 674 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 1011 \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 1010 \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 2019 \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 2017$

Solution

Problem 10
You are playing a game. A $2$ $\times$ $1$ rectangle covers two adjacent squares (oriented either horizontally or vertically) of a $3$ $\times$ $3$ grid of squares, but you are not told which two squares are covered. Your goal is to find at least one square that is covered by the rectangle. A "turn" consists of you guessing a square, after which you are told whether that square is covered by the hidden rectangle. What is the minimum number of turns you need to ensure that at least one of your guessed squares is covered by the rectangle?

$\textbf{(A)}\ 3 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 5 \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 4 \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 8 \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 6$

Solution

Problem 11
Suzanne went to the bank and withdrew $\$800$ . The teller gave her this amount using $\$20$ bills, $\$50$ bills, and $\$100$ bills, with at least one of each denomination. How many different collections of bills could Suzanne have received?

$\textbf{(A) }45\qquad\textbf{(B) }21\qquad\textbf{(C) }36\qquad\textbf{(D) }28\qquad\textbf{(E) }32$

Solution

Problem 12
When the roots of the polynomial \[P(x) = (x-1)^1 (x-2)^2 (x-3)^3 \cdot \cdot \cdot (x-10)^{10}\] are removed from the number line, what remains is the union of $11$ disjoint open intervals. On how many of these intervals is $P(x)$ positive?

$\textbf{(A)}~3\qquad\textbf{(B)}~7\qquad\textbf{(C)}~6\qquad\textbf{(D)}~4\qquad\textbf{(E)}~5$

Solution

Problem 13
What is the area of the region in the coordinate plane defined by \[| | x | - 1 | + | | y | - 1 | \le 1?\]

$\textbf{(A)}\ 2 \qquad \textbf{(B)}\ 8 \qquad \textbf{(C)}\ 4 \qquad \textbf{(D)}\ 15 \qquad \textbf{(E)}\ 12$

Solution

Problem 14
How many ordered pairs of integers $(m,n)$ satisfy the equation $m^2+mn+n^2 = m^2n^2$ ?

$\textbf{(A) }7\qquad\textbf{(B) }1\qquad\textbf{(C) }3\qquad\textbf{(D) }6\qquad\textbf{(E) }5$

Solution

Problem 15
What is the least positive integer $m$ such that $m \cdot 2! \cdot 3!\cdot 4!\cdot 5! \dots 16!$ is a perfect square?

$\textbf{(A) }30\qquad\textbf{(B) }30030\qquad\textbf{(C) }70\qquad\textbf{(D) }1430\qquad\textbf{(E) }1001$

Solution

Problem 16
Define an $upno$ to be a positive integer of $2$ or more digits where the digits are strictly increasing moving left to right. Similarly, define a $downno$ to be a positive integer of $2$ or more digits where the digits are strictly decreasing moving left to right. For instance, the number $258$ is an upno and $8620$ is a downno. Let $U$ equal the total number of $upnos$ and let $D$ equal the total number of $downnos$ . What is $|U-D|$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}~512\qquad\textbf{(B)}~10\qquad\textbf{(C)}~0\qquad\textbf{(D)}~9\qquad\textbf{(E)}~511$

Solution

Problem 17
A rectangular box $P$ has distinct edge lengths $a$ , $b$ , and $c$ . The sum of the lengths of all $12$ edges of $P$ is $13$ , the sum of the areas of all $6$ faces of $P$ is $\dfrac{11}{2}$ , and the volume of $P$ is $\dfrac{1}{2}$ . What is the length of the longest interior diagonal connecting two vertices of $P$ ?

$\textbf{(A)}~2\qquad\textbf{(B)}~\frac{3}{8}\qquad\textbf{(C)}~\frac{9}{8}\qquad\textbf{(D)}~\frac{9}{4}\qquad\textbf{(E)}~\frac{3}{2}$

Solution

Problem 18
Suppose $a$ , $b$ , and $c$ are positive integers such that \[\dfrac{a}{14}+\dfrac{b}{15}=\dfrac{c}{210}.\] Which of the following statements are necessarily true? I. If $\gcd(a,14)=1$ or $\gcd(b,15)=1$ or both, then $\gcd(c,210)=1$ . II. If $\gcd(c,210)=1$ , then $\gcd(a,14)=1$ or $\gcd(b,15)=1$ or both. III. $\gcd(c,210)=1$ if and only if $\gcd(a,14)=\gcd(b,15)=1$ .

$\textbf{(A)}~\text{I, II, and III}\qquad\textbf{(B)}~\text{I only}\qquad\textbf{(C)}~\text{I and II only}\qquad\textbf{(D)}~\text{III only}\qquad\textbf{(E)}~\text{II and III only}$

Solution

Problem 19
Sonya the frog chooses a point uniformly at random lying within the square $[0, 6]$ $\times$ $[0, 6]$ in the coordinate plane and hops to that point. She then randomly chooses a distance uniformly at random from $[0, 1]$ and a direction uniformly at random from {north, south, east, west}. All her choices are independent. She now hops the distance in the chosen direction. What is the probability that she lands outside the square?

$\textbf{(A) } \frac{1}{6} \qquad \textbf{(B) } \frac{1}{12} \qquad \textbf{(C) } \frac{1}{4} \qquad \textbf{(D) } \frac{1}{10} \qquad \textbf{(E) } \frac{1}{9}$

Solution

Problem 20
Four congruent semicircles are drawn on the surface of a sphere with radius $2$ , as shown, creating a close curve that divides the surface into two congruent regions. The length of the curve is $\pi\sqrt{n}$ . What is $n$ ?

$\textbf{(A) } 32 \qquad \textbf{(B) } 12 \qquad \textbf{(C) } 48 \qquad \textbf{(D) } 36 \qquad \textbf{(E) } 27$

Solution

Problem 21
Each of $2023$ balls is randomly placed into one of $3$ bins. Which of the following is closest to the probability that each of the bins will contain an odd number of balls?

$\textbf{(A) } \frac{2}{3} \qquad \textbf{(B) } \frac{3}{10} \qquad \textbf{(C) } \frac{1}{2} \qquad \textbf{(D) } \frac{1}{3} \qquad \textbf{(E) } \frac{1}{4}$

Solution

Problem 22
How many distinct values of $x$ satisfy $\lfloor{x}\rfloor^2-3x+2=0,$ where $\lfloor{x}\rfloor$ denotes the largest integer less than or equal to $x$ ?

$\textbf{(A) } \text{an infinite number} \qquad \textbf{(B) } 4 \qquad \textbf{(C) } 2 \qquad \textbf{(D) } 3 \qquad \textbf{(E) } 0$

Solution

Problem 23
An arithmetic sequence of positive integers has $n\ge3$ terms, initial term $a$ , and common difference $d>1$ . Carl wrote down all the terms in this sequence correctly except for one term, which was off by $1$ . The sum of the terms he wrote down was $222$ . What is $a+d+n$ ?

$\textbf{(A) } 24 \qquad \textbf{(B) } 20 \qquad \textbf{(C) } 22 \qquad \textbf{(D) } 28 \qquad \textbf{(E) } 26$

Solution

Problem 24
What is the perimeter of the boundary of the region consisting of all points which can be expressed as $(2u-3w, v+4w)$ with $0\le u\le1$ , $0\le v\le1,$ and $0\le w\le1$ ?

$\textbf{(A) } 10\sqrt{3} \qquad \textbf{(B) } 13 \qquad \textbf{(C) } 12 \qquad \textbf{(D) } 18 \qquad \textbf{(E) } 16$

Solution

Problem 25
A regular pentagon with area $1+\sqrt5$ is printed on paper and cut out. All five vertices are folded to the center of the pentagon, creating a smaller pentagon. What is the area of the new pentagon?

$\textbf{(A)}~4-\sqrt{5}\qquad\textbf{(B)}~\sqrt{5}-1\qquad\textbf{(C)}~8-3\sqrt{5}\qquad\textbf{(D)}~\frac{\sqrt{5}+1}{2}\qquad\textbf{(E)}~\frac{2+\sqrt{5}}{3}$

Solution
